ript


[Music]
for
for
[Music]
all
e [Music]
no [Music]
for
for
for
for [Music]
f
for
what
all
I
for
for
for
for
yeah
yeah [Music]
for
all
right
right good morning
everyone so in today class we'll start learning exception handling we have this is the
syllabus so today we'll try to
understand today we'll complete them to understand these topics okay need of the chapter what is
an exception need of exception what will happen when exception is raised
okay how to solve exception how can we stop abnormal termination what is
exception handling what the need of it exception handling keywords try catch find throw throws and their
purpose and a sample program and project to handle exception using TR catch and
loop TR catch and loop so these topics we'll try to complete in today
class okay and
uh now some students yesterday asked me that today onwards hynet class is
starting I mean today or tomorrow I didn't remember exactly I don't know the date tomorrow
no tomorrow tomorrow
onwards hnet class is starting hiet
batch so do you wish to join this
course do you wish to join this course now hnet batch will come again
after three months hnet is a
framework hnet is a framework a
framework alternative to
jdbc okay it's a framework alternative to
jdbc for interacting
with database
okay in company projects
development jdbc is not
used hnet with jpa is
used okay prequisite
to learn uh to learn uh prerequisite to learn what you
call hi bernet requisit to learn hiet
is core Java in core Java object oriented
programming collections and basic knowledge
on exception handing already know exception handing basic knowledge of exception handing already you have in me
chapter in me chapter I have shown you a project in project I shown you when to use trast throw throw how to use I
already given basic knowledge so you need to have clear knowledge on object oriented programming collections basic
knowledge on exceptionally and and basic knowledge
on basic knowledge on SQL and
jdbc okay so whoop collections compulsory these two this knowledge if
you have then you can connect to the subject you can reply the questions if you don't have this knowledge then
whatever s is telling you can listen and understand but object oriented programming collections compulsory if
you don't have this knowledge you cannot understand hnet because hnet code you
have to write B whoop and collections
okay so if if you wish to join hibernate you can join and how to complete
remaining
chapters okay advanc of full knowledge not required only basic knowledge on jdbc first program and the first program
also nasar will teach you jpa means what shumar always you will ask tum
questions here okay IET with JP is a course go and
join will tell jpa okay come on improve your maturity
here okay now how to complete remain remaining syllabus okay you have
exception handling and multi- threading is pending in your batch right okay if you all the people wish to
join this course and uh I'll stop your
batch and you can continue
with 11:00 a.m. batch or 400 p.m.
batch or if you want 2 p.m. I will take special
class okay three options we'll continue with
11:00 a.m. First Option or 400
p.m. or third option 2 p.m special
class okay 11:00 a.m. 2 p.m. you should
wait must wait for 10 days and here you must wait for 20
days okay 2PM special class we can start from
tomorrow okay if you want to go to hnet then you can I can help you
so which one you opt so now fourth option 9:00 a.m. as
usual 2 p.m batch your batch only I will shift your batch to 2 p.m
slot this is no other batch only your batch
only okay so I just given options because many of you are not agree with 2
p.m. many of you are asking for 9:00 a.m. so I'm deleting all these
things okay then I'm going with this just I try to help you so if you are
interested I will help you if you're not interested I'll continue so let me continue
this okay fine and then so no no 2 p.m class okay
so we'll continue 9:00 a.m. batch as usual
yeah some people are not agreed what can I do some people say that they don't want to come to 2: p.m. they will attend
only 9:00 a.m. you know two three people are not
coming means it creates problem now so if all people are want to come 2 p.m. I I'll take
so if two to three people are not coming what can I
do I don't have any objection because I want your success is important for me so
because hibernate once started again you have to wait for 3 months after 3 months again hibernate will come or design
patterns will come or don't know
okay in 11:00 a.m. currently I'm teaching encapsulation okay yesterday IDE completed so today I'm teaching and
starting encapsulation encapsulation inheritance okay in 11:00 batch topics
will not take that much time as as much time as taken in other batch these topics in their batch will not take that
much time because already I have um I have given you know all recorded videos
are there I'll share them yeah so some people who are
attending from us it's a morning 3:30 a.m. in
us okay so that's
why okay we'll do one thing people who was to join
hnet you can go from tomorrow you can stop here okay now you can join hnet and you
can plan for either 11:00 batch or you can plan for what do you call 400 p.m.
batch 2 p.m. I cannot take because uh I cannot take you know
special time means you know everyone should come in 9:00 a.m again 2 p.m. two times I cannot
teach is it clear two times I cannot teach so if 9:00 a.m.
if you don't come I'll take here off and I'll move your batch to 2:
p.m. so some people are there who cannot
attend because people are coming from us what to
do we plan like
this 2: p.m. I'm not taking because 9:00 a.m. 2 p.m. two times teaching is impossible for
me again my health will get
problem okay so I'll continue class at 9:00
a.m. I'm giving options which option is sortable to you you can follow 9:00 a.m. we will continue and we'll complete
syllabus here
okay if you go
to if you wish to go to
hynet you can shift your
batch to 11:00 a.m. or to to 4:00
p.m. okay 9:00 a.m. it will take more maximum uh 3
weeks maximum three weeks it will
take okay maximum 3 weeks already collections you are attending from
morning batch now it takes three
weeks topics pending is exception and multi- threading exceptional multi-threading is
the pending topics so 3 weeks will complete start from today start from today 3 weeks and if you wish to go to
hnet you can shift your batch to 11:00 a.m. or to 4 p.m. or to 6:00
p.m. I'm telling you the topics uh 11:00 a.m. currently
discussion topic is encapsulation and in 4
p.m. current topic is
Constructor and 6 p.m. current topic is static
members 6 p.m will come very fast okay 6 p.m. will come very fast because already
some of thep chapters recorded videos are there now so that's why okay we'll
come fast we'll not take that much time all questions I have prepared videos okay so I'm sharing the inter questions
as videos and Main content main content I am teaching for them to implement projects and interview questions they
are practicing and next class we are discussing the any questions any doubts for them so we'll come first okay any of
the three batches you can attend all three batches not possible and silently you come to 9:00 a.m. that's
it okay those private videos of your batch only not new batches new new
videos whatever I shared it to you same thing I given to 6 p.m.
n 6 p.m. separate separate videos are not there in your batch I taught and
those videos only recorded now those videos only I'm giving not new new videos I'm not missing anything from you
your batches are taking more time because I taught in your batch and recorded I don't have previous recorded
videos understand
that yeah control flow statements I'll show you so that you'll
get clarity
now okay now here all videos are there operators control flow statements I need
to edit not finding the free time to edit
okay MBC Gmail MBC
Gmail is it clear so I'm uploading all these videos because I need to edit
because in those classes I scold you know some students ask tum questions I have scolded those tum scoldings if I
also uploaded people get no some bad feeling on me that's why I'm deleting
them and upload okay uh that's what some people feel
very bad he this fellow is a moody fellow scolding some students you know last 11:00 batch people they send a big
mail asking for what filing a case on me okay that's why I got fear of you know
unnecessary creating problem to management so that's why I'm deleting them and uploading okay so unit three
all videos completely uh recorded I'm uploading one by one okay not finding free time so no no don't worry these
topics are not that much important you should complete immediately people are not taking my
school Lings as blessing n they're taking my schooling sayma this fellow is what short temper person they're
feeling okay so this is the if you wanted to
join uh any of these three batches you can come your wish
okay
I said already I'm not moving the 9:00 a.m. batch I'll take 9:00 a.m. as it is people if you want to join hi bernet you
can come to any of these patches okay it's I'm just giving an option to you
okay I'm giving options to you clear okay encaps currently 11:00 badge
people who wants to come to 11:00 please ping
me after 15 days okay because immediately now I
cannot share you some constraints are there for link please ping me after 15
days and for 4 pm batch link please ping me on after 20
days okay and uh for 6 P.M static members for
link please Ming me after 20 days this also after 20
days clear I cannot share you immediately now there are some constraints problems are
there so these 20 days you can practice clearly uh what you call hibernate with
n so this is what my suggestion so learning hibernate even though you are a
fresher it's important only having knowledge on hnet is important okay uh
today yeah collections 11:00 batch only 11:00 I'll teach 4:00 also I'll teach
okay now same after 15 days for entire syllabus see these 15 days I'm teaching these object oriented programming what
you have learn so the second part of object oriented program I'm teaching them what you have learn already so this unit
number four will start after these days accordingly this is for
volume two currently are volume two now these volume two topics will start in those batches after 15 20 20 days and
I'll do one thing uh daily daily uh class
topics daily class topics I will
post in face FB page daily from today okay now every day night I will
post next class topics on FB page accordingly you can join and you can ping me right is it okay
now so all you people follow my Facebook
page
okay now so this is the Facebook page you follow
it and daily whatever the topics I'm explaining I will post in this group in
this page every day every day I'll post image what topics is running in this batch in all all my five batches I'll
post here you can uh daily follow that okay
like that like it and follow
it h how many of you are there from us
cannot attend 2 p.m. if I take at 2 p.m. if I take at 2 p.m. how many of you
cannot attend cannot attend only only reply people who cannot attend one
anoj if I take class at 2: p.m. how many of you cannot attend
two
two any more one only two students
three
4
4 no you you are not attending you cannot
attend if I take if I take okay
VHA VHA you are telling that I am not ATT to you cannot I
confused yeah I will share Sila I will share it I'll share working with the
jars
okay College lefts okay okay okay five
students six
six okay six students stud cannot attend remaining all can come
right okay are you six students can come to 11:00 a.m. after 15 days these 15
days can you do some practice by your own other
chapters six students only I'm talking about these six students these six students can attend
11:00 a.m. after 15 days I will teach exceptional multi- threading first in 11:00
batch and then I will go for other
chapters okay VHA VHA
possible please all people don't talk okay dead you can come to 6 p.m.
okay so tomorrow onward shall I move our
batch to 2 p.m. no objection to all 11:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. I'll start
collections I'll teach 11:00 a.m. first 11:00 a.m. I'll start 400 p.m. also I'll start your wish any of these three
batches you can attend I I'm telling a daily topics I'll post
here
okay now daily topics I'll post here so you can join accordingly and ping me I
will share you that one yeah any of the three batches okay any of now let me also add 2
p.m from Tomorrow itself and no mixing only your
badge
same link I mean link I will tell you this link will work I will start that I need to talk to admin
first first I want to take confirmation from you just I'm here generally I will
with your seniors also whenever nasar batches are starting you know I will use to help all the students so that they
can learn hnet they will be ready with the technology Frameworks along with Cor
and today I got one good you know encouragement statement from your senior uh where is that where is
that will it open or not let's
see come on come on open open open
open
my mobile is far away from this
system you know you don't find any difficulty in Nas or class maybe already
advanc attending okay my style of teaching Nas style of teaching the terminology we are
using even School Lings also we are using same okay so please
read one
second one
minute
for
for
okay now look at here this is the message what I got from your senior who
is a student of nasar bch hello sir I am your old 6 PM batch students so actually
I am really feeling blessed to have you as my teacher actually sir yesterday Nas was telling about design patterns and I
am able to answer all questions it is because of you only sir thank you so much and very important I never take the
credit I always give you credit you back super appreciating you for your sincere
practice okay he is daily practicing he's daily
practicing are you catching my point so he's daily practicing the classes so that's why uh what do you call he's able
to attend answer any question
right so what do you
say first 3 weeks s is taking demo classes are those classes there in
YouTube first 3 week classes first 3 we demo class is there
on YouTube
okay will you manage with that videos
then if you can manage I'll continue here then previous batch videos are
there
this old playlist or new playlist here
2017
so am I wasting time today by discussing all okay
[Music] now
okay 2 3 4 4
five okay 14 sessions are there 14 classes means almost most our syllabus
will be completed so shall I shall you manage
then okay good thank you for your
suggestion okay then no need to change the time right yeah they are in order all are
placed in
order 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14
all hey I will take I will take I will take MBC MBC architecture next week I will take
take okay next coming Saturday Sunday I will combine all three batches and I will take so in all three batches I kept
it pending I'll take combining all batches
okay now
sure so now again you kept me in confusion okay
so you follow that 14 videos then okay I'll do one thing I'll talk to Naser
keep that 14 topics in the same order only not to change the order okay so that your batch people will join with
the nas classes meanwhile you attend demo classes okay try to manage other demo classes by attending okay
now so somebody's telling that
2 p.m is not okay for 2 to three
people so that's why again I enter into [Music]
confusion silpa Jane all people are asking to continue at 2 p.m. what is your
opinion oh anything is okay for
you okay so if okay 2 p.m is okay then we'll go for 2 P.M
okay yeah give me 2 minutes give me give me five minutes I'll talk to admin and
confirm it okay please give me five minutes please
wait
2 p.m. okay after 15
days 11:00 a.m. I will teach exception
handling multi- threading collections okay now after 20 days
in what do you call uh 400 p.m. and 600 p.m. I will
teach what do you call exception multi- threading and collections in 2 p.m. from
tomorrow I will teach exceptionally multi- threading and
rest of the topics
okay so this
is okay this is our schedule from tomorrow so now if you have any doubts
you can unmute and you can talk same number of days okay maximum 21
I mean maximum by end of this today 10 Maxim January 1
week yes sir and tomorrow onwards you can join
hibernate 6 pm. collection will continue sir unable to hear now can you please
speak loudly sir 6 p.m collection will be continue now sir yeah 6 PM also same
look at there I WR already now 6 p.m. sir morning 6 6 a.m. collection 6 a.m.
collections will continue There is no disturbance in 6 a.m. now okay sir 6m as usual we'll continue okay sir thank you
sir only this this time schedule difference is only for 9:00 a.m. batch
okay is everyone clear still any doubts you
can ask by unmuting yourself or you can chat your
wish yeah Conan
Singh yeah here is the conclusion
anoj Anil Anil Anil this is the conclusion
okay hynet batch link I will give you please register
now okay the hello
sir person you success and happy life no doubt in that so just believe
me yeah tell me [Music]
n this is hynet batch link you can click you can register and your name mobile
number
every yeah tell me kunan Singh yes sir good morning good
morning you calling my name so I just came you unmuted now that's why I called
okay sir by mistake I unmuted I think you wanted to talk to me okay okay
okay 6m collections already started it's almost in in in the next four five days
it is going to complete
okay so if you wish to come to 11:00 from tomorrow if you want to do revision
you can come to 11:00 a.m. from Tomorrow itself this is 9:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. link
is there no 11: a.m. okay tomorrow in 2: p.m. I will
give you 11:00 a.m. batch link
okay okay tomorrow I will give you 400 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. both both batch
links so if you want if you wish to do revision one more time you can do it okay no objection 6 p.m. I cannot give
you at this stage okay because there's a already good number of students are then in 6 p.m. there are no free
slots okay now 11:00 a.m. and 4
P.M 2 p.m same your batch link only same 9:00 a.m. slot
link sir yeah this is 11: a.m. batch link you can take 11:00 from today
itself if you want to join
join
that
hello somebody's trying to talk to me anybody
there so you can raise your hand if you want I can unmute you if you're unable to
unmute raise your hand click your raise hand button I will
unmute so is is everything clear H VHA VHA tell me sir just now
only we got one circular from college sir okay because some lab instructor has
got Corona they're saying don't come for lab um two weeks they said oh super
super so you can attend yes sir so wonderful wonderful
good said after two weeks we'll try to conduct Labs on Sunday don't come for
their that's that's great news for us so happily we can complete our syllabus then I'll
2m and pray for that person who got
Corona in so I hope it's all clear to you shall we start exceptional link from
tomorrow at 2 p.m you will get this link update update
message no no I will teach all topics in every batch I'm not going to skip anything
Sila I'm not going to skip anything okay I will give the quick revision okay
now like Point by point I don't
teach
[Music]
9 sir you say tomorrow 2m. start we start yeah tomorrow we will have class
from Tomorrow onwards we'll class at 2
p.m. okay
can hello sir yeah Ma tell me sir I want to attend at 6 p.m. how
can I attend sir 6 p.m. yes
sir yeah 6 p.m. I will give you after a few days right already you attended all the topics now because there's already
classes full okay sir I mean can we message you
after 20 days sir yeah I will list out everyday topics on Facebook okay whenever the
topic is coming that day you please try to ping me on Whatsapp message I will send you the link okay sir thank you so
much okay is it
clear yeah tomorrow tomorrow at 2:00 tomorrow at 2:00 I will share both 11:00
a.m. batch and 400 p.m. batch links whichever the batch is possible for you you can join if possible 6 p.m. batch
link also I will give you okay now all three batches links I will give you you can join okay I'll check the feasibility
and I'll give you 6 p.m. batch link
okay
now
yeah this is 11 A bash link the same one more time I will share okay
this is 11:00 batch link current running batch link one more time I'll share I'm
telling I don't confuse for small small things here
[Music] okay shall I wind up today
class yeah I will I told you he already WR remaining topics after exceptionally
multi- threading completed rest of the topics will continue until syllabus completed I don't leave you don't
worry and uh we will plan Sunday classes also from coming once my morning 6:00
p.m. batch completed then I'll plan uh we'll plan the rest of the I mean what
do you call Sunday batches Sunday classes I'll plan for you okay 4 p.m. and your batch combining inner classes
common topics I will take inner class Java n module okay packages packages
already videos are there jar files okay and uh enum annotation so next coming
Sunday means uh December December this Sunday December
20th onwards this this Sunday I'm planning for your senior batch 20th onwards every
Sunday you have special class common topic workshops are there okay Java new features everything
all all enum annotation generics all the special classes workshops I'm conducting
for all batches is it clear design patterns [Music]
everything every Sunday every Saturday Sunday every Saturday Sunday Saturday 4
hours Sunday 4 hours total eight hours Saturday Sunday every Saturday Sunday you have continuation workshops until
next coming three four months okay uh schedule I will release all Workshop schedule I will release
clear Java new features videos uploaded jav new features videos already
there right Lambda expression you have already seen h
no I will teach again don't worry if you are not following that videos I will teach
again Ashok
Kumar here already
uploaded
okay up to 17 videos are there still method reference videos has to upload I'll
upload so now I I'm free from tomorrow at 9:00 now every day the remaining videos I upload I will edit and I will
upload up to now I don't have free time now you know
right okay so shall I wind up today class tomorrow 9:00 slot I will use
tomorrow onwards 9:00 a.m. slot I will use for your videos to edit and upload operators control flow statements and
Java remaining videos okay everything I'll
upload yeah tomorrow onwards class will be 224 okay all you people remember keep
reminding anyways I will remind you from Google also from mail tomorrow onwards class will be at 2 p.m with the same
9:00 a.m. batch link don't forget don't forget okay don't
forget clear my point don't forget and please don't get angry that
I'm changing batch because you benefit only I'm changing batch right I'm not starting any new batch at 9:00 correct
I'm not starting any new batch right so for your benefit only I'm changing
right so hnet is also very important again new batch will start don't know when if it is advanc batch I would not
change the timing Frameworks cybernet and spring I will
support and nasar content you don't find anywhere outside that much Clear explanation and S will not teach only
hnet s will teach complete C Java revision also okay complete code Java revision
also s will give so please try to join hnet and
enjoy no no no viya not required for you people who are going for selenium don't join hnet only core ja and plan for your
selenium people who want to go to Java side only hynet required people who wish
to go to selenium side Android side some other technology site don't join hibernate not required for
you okay
now thank you that's all for the day tomorrow we will join at 2:00 with the
same link 2: p.m. Shar 2 p.m. sharp okay not like 9 9:30 2 p.m. means 2 p.m.
I don't don't have any batch before thank you see you all tomorrow
bye
[Music]
come

