ript


so are you able to hear
me yeah recollect what we discussed in last
class so last class we are
discussing how to work with jar file right how to create jar file we
discussed tell me how can you create jar
file what the command for creating jar file by using the by using the tool jar
following by hyph cvf C stands for create V stands for
veros f stands for the file name with which the file which with which the
command should I mean jar should be create jar Hy cvf jar space hyen cvf
space the jar file name space the folders files those should be included
in this file with spaces operator right then next following
by uh then following by if you wanted to include any files or folders from
different directory you must include the directory path by using hyuny option
hyuny following by uh Hyun C following by what you write the
directory in the directory if you want to include all the files what you must
write what you must write star do
star do star do dot okay now dot must Place
uh tell me if you wanted to include the files from current working directory you
can use a star if or you can use a DOT okay if you want to include files from
different directory you must use dot should not use star if I use star again
star is applying on current directory that is the new point we discussed in last class and we did r& we find
something from the uh YouTube and we we found I mean something from the Google and we find yes or
no
speee
hey h
[Music]
s Raju know Raju
Raju
spe
next who is this person 18332 open
participants check your name someone has joined with the name 18332 I'm going to
remove that person respond fast come to chat who is
that open your participants click on participants and check your name 18332
who is
this what is your name day is your name is 180
332
respond I'm going to remove you from the class
now your name is
sudas suda your name is suda your name is coming as suda yes okay don't worry
open participant list in the participants you will see your
name
like Ma you are not 180 okay now there did you get my
message uh that's it you are sud yes only why you are
worrying Galaxy
a728 who is
that I told you the procedure of joining to the zoom
class but still you are following your own
behavior okay you are following your own behavior I will I I'm going to remove
you everyone from the class no doubt you have to go
to all the people follow this procedure all are you there in the
class okay in the middle of the class I'll remind you if you're not following my
instructions if you're logging however you like then I'll remove you from the class once I remove you from the class
you can not rejoin again
understand join with proper
name
the name with your name you are joining if not matched with our records will be removed from the
class
okay so any questions from jar
yesterday
any questions from jar yesterday all people practiced shall we go for next
topic okay we have two types of
jars we have two types of Jar files what are the two types of Jar
files API jar file number
two first one is API jar file number
two
not after b space must be there
after a bin space must be there if it don't give space it will not
work
when it is working in my system why not work in your system check once why it is not working you have to find out
right what you mistake done how can I
know
okay today class types of Jar
files we have two types of Jar files one
is API jar file API or
Library Library jar file number [Music]
two executable jar file okay so what the meaning of EX what
the meaning of API jar file the jar file that
contains packages and classes
for package and classes for reusing by other programmer
with some functionality methods for reusing by other programmer
it is not meant for self execute they're meant for other programmer to use the jar file that contains packages
and classes with some functionality methods for reusing by other
programmer is called API or library
jarf for example and tell me
rt.jar rt.jar ojdbc 7.
jar next serate hyphen API dojar next
JSP hyphen api. jar okay all these are what
H all these are what these are API jar
files we ourself created we ourself created
classes classes. jar file with
with with addition
subtraction
multiplication Etc
logic classes is what APA
J okay catch my point all right next what the meaning
of what what the meaning of executable jar file a jar file that
contains main method class main method class and that can be
executed by using Java
command by using Java command is
called executable
jar okay now okay for
example for example a jar a main dot
jar I'm taking name as a main I'm taking main as a name it's my
wish I can take any name I'm taking name as a main it's not the fixed name for
example a main Do jar that contains that
contains calc. Java file with main
method is called
executable Jara
okay now Cal is a main meod class nowu caly is a main me
class caly is a main me class it is a executable jar file now the question is
executable jar file automatically created no how to create and
executable jarfile okay how can we create executable jar
file just by creating jar file it is not executable jar
file understander every jar
file is not by
default is not executable jar okay we must
we must add we must do
one configuration
inside jar file in yesterday told you now manifest.mf
file any of you remember as I told you we have jar file
inside jar file inside jar file right click open
with wi rare we have meta hyphen INF
folder in meta hyph folder we have manifest.mf
copy come here we must do one configuration inside jar file in
manifest.mf file in
meta hyphen INF folder get my
point then
only then only this jar
file will be an execute
J okay so then what is that configuration we need to do we must
add one property we must add one
property inside inside jar file you must add one property what the
property main hyphen class must add one property called main
hyon class where inside jar file inside jar file where in manifest.mf file in
metah Hy folder
with main method class name okay so how can we create an
executable jar file by default by
default every jar file is not an executable jar
file to make a jar file as an executable jar
file to make a jar file as an executable jar file we must
add one entry not only we must add one
property we must add one property main hyphen class with with what main method
class name main method class name inside jar file PA in manifest.mf file in meta
folder everyone
understand or else you can take this one here
you can add here in a manifest manifest. MF file we must
add one property I can say we must add one
property main hph class with main method class name inside jar file in meta
folder then only this jar file will be an executable jar file okay right
now what is Manifest file manifest.
mfile you need to know about this file what is this file uh it is
a this file is part of a jar
file comma it is automatically created by jar
command in every jar file second
point it is a properties file it is a properties file so tell me
sir what the meaning of text file can you tell me what the meaning of text
file text file text file what the meaning of text file a file that contain
Text data is called text file what the meaning of Doc file a file that contain
documentation means a text in combination with uh bullet points okay
some tables is called what document file what is a image file a file that contain
image is called image file okay like that what is a properties file it is a properties file that
contains several several
properties okay contain several properties okay what the meaning of property it contains several properties
of this properties uh information of this jar file so now what
is the property a property is nothing
but a property is nothing but a
name a name comma value PIR a name comma
value pair okay a name comma value pair is called
property okay now for example for
example uh I'm taking student number
SN SN what is SN it is a property name
what the property value one not one okay I'm taking another property
called what student name uh now the property name is what HK so this
is property one and this
is Property 2 just a sample data I'm giving okay name value
pair okay then in a properties
file a property
name and value
are
is differentiated
using by using new line new line that means we must
place every property in separate
l okay got some idea right with this
knowledge let us try to test it out shall you write the code uh now before going
that in a manifest
file in manifest file we will
place properties with
predefined names okay in our own properties file
property names can be our wish SN s name your wish any name you can write but in
the Manifest file we are not going to place the properties with our own
name in properties file we must Place properties with predefined names but
not with our own names why
because because those
properties are reading by Java command
at execution time okay if you place with your own
property name Java command cannot read your property don't know now but not
with your own name why because because those properties are
reading by Java command at execution time Java command don't
know everyone understand this point for example
for example for placing main method class
name we must use the
property main hyphen class following by main
method class name with fully qualified name okay main method class name with
fully qualified name that means what what the meaning of it
package name dot class name you must Place fully qualified name
package name do class name I hope all people are following any
confusion are able to accept these words shall you go for programming
now shall we go for programming now all
people comfortable so what have we discussed in today class types of jars we are two
types of jars what the two types of jars AP and Library file AP jar file or
executable jar file earlier we created API jar files okay we created API jar
file now I want executable jar file the jar file that contains main method main method
class and that can be executed main mother class and that can be executed by Java command is called executable jar
file or you can say simply other words let's say a jar
file let me write like this a jar file that can be
executed by Java command is
called executable jar
file in this jar
file in this jar file we must have main method
class and must place this main method
class name
in which file
manifest dot MF
file in this J file
by using the property name what that main hyph
class for example a main. jar that contains calculator. Java file with main
method Java file or class file class file with main method is called executable jar file okay how can
you create execut jar file already mentioned here one more time I mentioned what is the manifestor file properties file okay so now let's go to our folder
to work now come back working with jar files right click
new I'm creating one folder called executable jar exe jar I'm
writing open the J file now I'm creating
one Al FN Java first I want to work with the test later main method Edition class
we'll see that class test main method hello world save save in the folder here copy paste
run test dot Java then go to command
prompt did I use any packages no now what to do Java C test. Java
compile then Java test we can execute we'll get output hell world but my
target is what I want execute it bya jarfile not directly why jar file I want
execute sir why why are jar file I'll tell you later first you concentrate then what to do I should create jar file how to create jar file jar hyen
cvf jar hyphen cvf what the name of the jarf I want to take main. jar okay
generally this is the coding stand that's it naming convention main. jar following by huh jar Hy cvf main. jar
following by now the jar the do class file is available in the same current directory no need of hundy on all okay
now directly test. class run it is added
okay now now I'm deleting this test do do class F delete after deleting what to
do clear screen run Java you wanted to ask to execute Jr file now for that the
command is is Hy jar Java Hy jar space
what you do know Java Hy jar space next what to do you must mention the jar file
name main. jar run then we got error look at there no main manifest manifest
attribute in main. jar okay that means what to do I have to add the Manifest
file main. jar file so what to do open jar come command jar hyph hyph help so
if you want to work with jar command internal command I should use hyph hyph help no let us see
now look at there hyph e Hy the application entry point for
Standalone application bundle into a modular or executable executable jarfile
are catching my point so if you want to add your main class attribute what to do
you must use either option hyph e or you have to use option hyph hyph main Hy class okay let us follow both options
come here come to this one clear screen
now what I should write jar command now
jar hyon c v f Hy CV f e e stands for
uh manifest file main class name space what the jar file name main. jar space
uh what the name of the class you want to store test okay following by uh okay
class name is test following by which file you want to include test. class let's see will it work or not most
search file or directory added manifest okay let us try to test once
again now I'm separating this e from here now I'm separating here test. class
following I'm writing here hyph e hyph e space
test no such file or directory test. class oh sorry sorry sorry
sorry I have not compiled sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry I should
compile first you need to compile do class file we deleted now uh test. class I'm deleting this main
first main. jar then what is the First Command we try this one let us see will it work or look at there added manifest
adding test. class okay let us see will it work or not with our Command
Java okay output coming hello world okay now jar file I executed I
didn't run test I'm removing this test. class file okay now I run output coming
hello world program executed from main. jar go to main. jar file go to go to main meta Hy folder
open manifest.mf file look at there what the name is coming main hyph class test
who added this property I have added come on sir I added jar command
added jar command is added jar command is placing this mainest by using which
option Hy e option comfortable H clear screen okay now look at there by default
three properties are there manifest hyphone version created by and then our
own main hyph class test so everyone understand shall I write the
comments okay now I'm creating explain okay
create creating and
executable J file with test
class with the test. class without
package without package uh what the folder structure
first I'm creating one folder exe jar executable jar
file okay in executable jar file we
created we created test. Java and we created test.
class okay now
next okay first we create test. then open command
promt now we type Java C test. Java
then step one step two then step
three test. Java following by we got test. class okay then step number three
we have to create jar file tell me how to create jar file command
jar hyon cvf jar hyphen
CV CV Fe following
by main Do jar following by the dot the class what
you want to include test following by the dot class file okay this
test this test the name test will be input to
e order follow the order C create e test
copy this test. class into this file okay then what happen here background in the folder in addition
to in addition to these three files we'll get one more file what is that
main dojar okay inside this main
dojar meta Hy INF
folder manifest. MF file we have main
hyphen class uh what is that colon equal to
now what is that colon okay now you can use colon or you can use equal to no
problem anything both will work uh colon what the name will be go
test okay then now jar file ready now what to do I have to execute how to
execute same folder executable jar file folder you have to run the command
Java hyph jar which jar file name main
dot then output test. class file
available in main. jar
file is
execute Java command
reads manifest file
Java command reads main method class
name from manifest
file executes test. class file available in main. jar
file displays
output hello can I hope all you
understand so do you want to try now in your system or you will not try
later do you want try now try
later okay now I want to create again jar file creating an executable jar file
with a test. class without package we tried now I want try with
package with package I want right what the meaning of with package executable jar
file P1 P1 content s.
Java P1 content s. Java okay then how to compile Java
C P1 SL test. Java right
then in P1 package
in P1 package test. class test. class test.
Java files are created okay
now then you have to go to executable jar file you have to run the command how run
command jar hyund cvf main. jar
test test p1. test huh come on test p1.
test p1. test okay p1. test because the
class name is not a test it's a package name now fully qualified name p1. test
following by P1 SL test.
okay now p1. test will be this name will be placed inside manifest file P1
package and test. class will be placed inside main doj
visualizing then
background where main. jar file is created inside P1 package executable jar
file jar file is created in executable jar file sorry uh executable jar
folder okay now in executable jar folder main. jar is created inside meta inside
what will be there sorry go here inside this what is there test.
class inside test. class and what there meta NF inside that
folder manifest.mf with an entry main do class test okay now but now inside this
meta main. jar file what will be there P1 come on
Sir P1 package you must visualize P1 package in P1 package what will be
there test. class okay right uh next in The Meta
folder uh in meta folder what will be there meta manifest manifest.mf file in
manifest.mf file main. class file will be their class name
p1. okay now in jar file package and class file package and class file
available in main. jar and p1. test is a
class class name this class name will be go and store inside manifest file
manifest.mf
okay got CL idea in manifest.mf this p1. test will go to manifest.mf file with
the with the property name main hyon
class okay now got Clarity here then how to execute
there is no difference in execution Java hunar main. jar Java command reads main
method class name from manifest.mf file then in a manifest file what the
name you have written P1 okay main method class name p1.
test okay it reads p1. test what the meaning of P1 package name then what is
finding finds Java command
finds which package P1 package package P1 inside
where inside this jar file okay
and Java command finds test.
classile in P1 package inside this jar
file okay then executes test. class file available in if you don't want write
this much heavy logic a statements you can make it simple executes tested. class file available in available in P1
package in this main. jar you can write shortcut like this so it first finding
P1 inside P1 finding test inside test okay available main method executed we
are getting output hello world shall we try go to clear
screen now go to folder exj file now right click create
new folder package P1 I'm deleting the jar
file move this test. jar file into P1 open this add package P1 save close this
then come to command prompt observe Java
C P1 SL test. java. class file
created okay P1 package test. class test. Java the next I need to create jar file jar
hyph cvf following by jar file name main. jar
following by the main method class name test do p1. test following by uh the
class to include P1 SL P1 SL test. class
run added manifest adding P1 test. class
okay it is added 3/f where it is added in the current directory what the
current directory okay uh exe jar file folder in P1 jar file both go to exe jar
file open man main. jar file inside you'll find meta Hy I folder meta Hy INF
folder p1. package go to meta Hy INF folder open manifest.mf file then you'll
find the attribute the property main hyon class following by p1. test okay
now then close this come back uh now go back to P1 package in P1 package test.
class close the jar file come to command prompt and now clear screen now what you
run Java Java jar main. jar output coming
hello here all the people understand
okay I'm giving five minutes time all people try it [Music]
now all people try
now N I told you any name you can use you can use a test do J main Do jar any
name you wish okay you can use any
name actually in my room in front of me I have placed a
board in today class today don't scold for any
question okay don't scold any question that's why I'm not
scolding okay in in indrajit has asked a beautiful question sir where we use this
manual creation of Jar file what should I answer my dear 9:00
a.m. classmates can you please
reply yeah shukan sahu I'll come to that that is the next
case so Indra has as asked wonderful beautiful question sir where we use this
manual creation of Jar file what should I answer to him anybody can tell me in
my room in your room what should I answer in my room in
his room I don't understand what to answer
to him anybody have answer in your mind please answer to
him so what is the meaning of that question
injit can you please come up with your question Clarity I miss the clarity what
the meaning of
it
[Music] okay
right shall we go to the next
point so if you are a gaj fellow I cannot do anything every day I cannot repeat
already have explained why you need to create jar file okay why you need to create jar
file I already explained Mr Indra indrajit so maybe you are in a deep sleeping mode maybe in a some other mode
I don't know all have
explained Sunday class did you attend Sunday
class hello Mis not answering did you attend
Sunday
class this is a beautiful answer okay I am the Mad fellow pagle
fellow coming to Sunday okay you are the very intelligent people okay very busy
people than Mukesh Amani okay you will roam on the
roads okay you don't give the time to class and you will go somewhere else
whatever you like you do and next class you are coming and torturing me and disturbing the class
simple so mukes Amani also can give some time for me Bill Gates also can give some time for me Bill Clinton also can
give some time for me okay our Modi also can give some sometime for me but you people are very
busy on Sunday Sunday means Sunday and you're coming to next class and Rising whatever the questions you want as
if okay as if you are you know you know wonderful
person if I scold you you'll feel that I'm insulting
you
okay now let's move to the next topic so now tell me we are developing
project okay we are going to the project in Project what are you doing are we
creating one class no we'll create multiple classes and we'll organize
those classes in multiple packages creating an executable jar file with uh with multiple
packages with multiple classes and multiple
packages uh can you help me out
write multiple classes and multiple
packages what to do now same folder I'm taking I'm taking two
packages I'm moving test. Java to another package here I'm writing a.
Java here I'm writing P2 package with test.
[Music] Java
okay uh then next what to do now I want to access E1 package a class method from
test class right write the code now go to
folder open this changing to P2 package and I want to access P1 package import
p1. a then here I'm writing displaying message test
main test main start and test main
end a do M1 can I call okay let me take object a
A1 equal to new a uh a1.
M1 and then save it now where I have to save it
in the package P2 let me change the name P1 to
P2 right right click new folder P1 inside P1 package now
create a Java file alt F and Java Class
A package P1 then this class must be public
class public class a public wide I'm taking me name as M1 any name you can
take and then here I'm writing a M1 save
in which folder package P1 with the name a. Java save
it now come to command prompt clear screen now I am in which
folder prompt I'm hiding the path prompt
exe you can take any name don't concentrate on name this is a folder name or concept name generally I'll
create the folder with the concept name okay so concept is executable jar file then what the command I should run here
first I should compile which Java file Java C test. Java which is available in
P2 now tell me when I compile test. Java in P2 is P1 a. Java file is also compil
because Auto compilation okay now the classes are ready next what to do I must create a
jar file with both packages containing the jar file right Java jar hyphen
cvf cvf jar file name let me take test. jar
because people are feeling that every time I should take Maya you can take any name yesterday I explained with the test. jar classes. jar now I'm taking
test. jar your wish any J name you can take test. jar save tell me you wanted
to place main Fest class now what is the name of the main Fest class P2 do test
following by uh you want to place inside this test. jar file you want to place
what the packages P1 package slash star. class space P2 package SL
star. class understand the command you want to place two packages now what the
two packages P1 package and P2 package then what the command the command is
like this jar Hy cvf test. jar jar file name following by what is the main main
class name following by uh you need to take P1 SL P1 SL all classes p2/ all
classes run now look at that only P1 a do class P2 test. class only added right
then where it will be stored clear screen clear screen PR
/f okay look at that main jar is old jar file let me delete them so no confusion
you can take with any name clear screen run uh look at here tested jar file
created in the current directory then P1 contain. class file. Java file P2
contain class. Java file then test. jar file internally manifest
file contains P2 do test okay then close
this file then come to command prompt I want to execute tell me to execute do we
need to set any class path come on sir do we need to set any class path not not
required because all the jar all files are available in the same plan now do you need set class path not
required because all packages are available in the same jar file no need to St class
path hello did you understand my point available in the same pack same jar file
directly you can run jar hyphen cvf sorry
Java hyphen jar uh what the name of the jar file name test. J run look at the
output coming test main am1 test main
end how people got Clarity
here
hello so we are run we are developing AP jar F or executable jar
file this is executable jar f file okay now this a executable jar file so now
tell me what the procedure with multiple classes and multiple jar now go to executable jar
file
for
for
okay initially we have only Java
files initially we have only Java files no executable jar file also
right then after
compilation what I compile Java Java cp2
then we got okay then after jar file
creation we have test. jar file in a test. jar file
we will have P1 package with a do
class P2 package
with P2 package with test. class meta
hyph in folder with this one with P2 do test then executable jar file you
running with test. jar okay you can create with
any name so what is say test main let us continue with main only generally in the
proc projects we use main. J for easy finding purpose main means it's a main
class generally we'll use the name as main only Java command reads main method class name P2 do test from manifest file
executes test. class available in P2 package in main.
jar with with a. class
file available in P1
package in this main. jar displace output displace
output what the output you
got test main start
am can hope people got
Clarity yeah thank
you am I confusing
you am I confusing you did you understand okay shall we go back back to
the project style shall we go back to the project style up to now we learn Amir p style
this is Amir style but not Project Style Project Style is different shall we go to Project
[Music] Style what the project style I told you any of remember
[Music]
what the project sty in Project style we will create first what we have two
people right a. Java file test. Java file both are not developed by same
programmer they're developed by different programmers then first we need to have
developer and then user yes or
no developer and user come on Sir developer will develop
P1 do P1 a. Java
file
okay now developer will develop this code then
user user trying to develop his program to use the developer jar file
now very important Point sir how many types of Jar files are there two types
of Jar files first jar file API jar file second jar file first jar file API jar
file API jar file or or Library jar file tell me now can
you please apply this thought now developer developing class will be distributed to other programmer
as a executable jar f as a API jar F tell me in projects development are
you going to see both jar files AP and executable jar file uh now tell me slet
Hine api. jar ojdbc ojdbc7 dojar those two jar files
are API jar files are executable jar files they are API jar files they contain the classes for us to reuse
right H then tell me now developer let's say developer I am the
developer okay I am the developer and you are the user programmer main method developer are you ready to feel like
this I'm the developer I developing the code and I'm giving that code to you and you people should use that code are you
ready how I will develop first I will create source file
separately SRC separately right click new new I'll create bin folder
separately right click new new folder distributed folder
separately right click new new folder leave folder separately
right then the source code I'm developing will be go to SRC folder in SRC folder package contain only Java
file with the M1 method I'm developing I'm developing with the test program you people must develop with uh business
application I'll give you assignment today you have to develop that assignment exactly however I'm writing
you should write the same way now tree slf so this is the
folder creating an execu jar file with API jar
file with project scenario final
conclusion okay so we are creating project under project we have two
folders developer now under a developer we have this is the
code okay just I'm copy pting here that nothing nothing I'm not doing anything
else fine then next go to command prom next up what I have to compile it Java c
hyund d bin Java C hyund bin bin what do you
write um SRC SL
P1 SL a. Java
okay from the developer from Project SL developer we
run this command with this command what is happening background background. class file
created 3/f so now bin folder
receiving
because of this command developer folder receiving class F
right all are visualizing the next after do class F
generated what I should do I should create jar file and copy
that jar file into dist folder I'll do one thing instead of copying all I'll do
one directly I'll change directory to CD
D okay now CD D then dist folder is
coming slash here then I want to create jar file so
what the command to run jar file anybody can help me to write jar uh High
cvf jar Hy cvf e required or not required e are you
going to add any property in The Meta manifest file no then jar Hy
cvf uh you wanted to create a jar file with what name the name of the jar file
name of the jarfile I'm taking classes. jar because it contain classes space you
want to copy the classes into this folder from where from the bin folder it
is available in the bin folder
okay you want to copy into bin folder how to write now do slasher dot do slasher dot do slash where bin folder
available currently your path is in dist folder currently we are in a dist folder in a dist folder bin there no dist
folder Parent Directory bin how to refer The Parent Directory dot dot
SL bin okay space what I should write now
inside bin available P1 only one package is there you can write P1 or you can write dot if you dot then P1 do class
file everything is copied copied and then jar file is created with what name
classes. jar where it is moving into disc folder hello all people got
Clarity shall we run this command go to command from clear screen CD
dist jar hyph
cvf space what do you write jar Hy
cvf classes. jar uh classes. jar following
by Hy Capital C oh I hope I forgot hyph Capital
C hyph Capital C do do SL bin
slash dot run added manifest P1 P1 a.
plus okay now with this commands you run
3/f again okay you have to come out CD do
dot you have to come to parent to come to parent CD do dot means go to parent
now run 3/f look at there it is created in dist folder correctly
now
paste
okay
all you people comfortable what is happening are these are new commands or known commands only all these are known
commands only so now developer job completed developer completed his task
now this classes. jar file
share the API jar file classes. jar File
2 okay share API jar file classes. jarfile
to whom to user
programmer then user
programmer places classes. jar file in Li
folder in his in his project
folder okay
now shall we go for user folder now clear screen CD do dot come out CD user
go inside user I'm in user folder now now I'm only
showing the path prompt user
have we created any folder structure here no let us create folder
structure now go to user uh right click new first what you create SRC
folder move P2 folder here
SRC srcp to delete. class file then right click
new bin right click
new folder lib right click
new
dist okay right yeah yeah Nini we have to do everything I will tell you don't worry
I'll tell you next story will come uh then dis folder then the now this user
programmer should open Li folder in his Li folder he has to keep that files go to developer Li uh distri folder copy
the classes. J good question n you got sometimes you will ask wonderful questions sometimes you will ask tum
questions but this question is super question okay if you ask this type of
questions I'll be very happy sometimes you'll ask know I don't know silly questions which you can answer by your
own so come on improve your subject maturity mind maturity you know these questions
actually this is a silly question from my point of view but super question from your point of view but there are some
questions asking which are silly questions from your point of also so that maturity I want you
get where I should go Li folder paste I didn't copy developer
lib sorry dist folder copy come to
developer come to user Li folder
paste okay then with this folder
structure clear screen run 3/f so this is
the folder structure okay what is this project
under project user folder what to do
now always I should do this manual work every time H yeah you have to
do okay you have to do this manual work and is there any automation yes
Once Upon a Time long long ago I told you one course any of you
remember Once Upon a Time long long ago I told you one
course if you want to make all these things automate you have to learn one course I
told you now new demo
to H what are the Technologies you should learn what are the what are
the what are the must learn topics now all the people feel CRT
cnds core Java core Java barle huh HTML JavaScript Advanced Sava
framework cybernet spring and angular XML web services these four are our Java
courses Java package core Java Advan Ser Frameworks XML web services uh in
addition to this in every project in every project whatever the work I am
doing now manually where is that file whatever the work I'm doing manually folders creation okay folders creation
compilation copy and test this all the work whatever I am doing that work I no
need to do that work will be do by a small small software is called Java
tools Eclipse okay this folder structure created by Eclipse compilation done by
Gradle Maven okay there are so many tools are there so now if you are
interested okay now you can go to our YouTube channel okay now I have given you full clarity to you right how the
realtime story is going on right go to our YouTube channel Nares it and
search go to YouTube channel and here search gradel
by Naser okay now go and search gradel by
Naser gradel session one session two okay session three session four also
there now go to playlist otherwise here in the playlist you can find Gradle
totally how many videos are there three videos I I think some more videos must be there they might not be copied I'll
check with them okay now this first video Gradle Workshop okay or else you can go to Maven okay now uh search with
Maven Maven
playlist haveen playlist
by
not maybe they didn't create the M playlist okay just search
Maven okay right Maven Workshop session one session two session three session four
session five okay first you learn Maven these are four five sessions you first
learn from Maven okay now right you can start work
now okay if you learn from now you will get clarity what I am doing how to
automate it this is all the manual work how to automate this manual work you will understand from the tools is it
clear okay the next moving to next now I want to compile tell me the compilation
command same uh one second is the program compile or not compiled Java C
hund uh Bin P2 SRC SL come on come on
p2/ test. Java compile or not compile not compile we'll get error class not
phone class not phone so first what should I do I should set set class path
equal to current directory SL project project user I should take user slash
following by what you write lib sorry uh lib slcl classes. jar okay for future
bin program to execute if you want okay we'll see later run it then now first I
have to prepare class path copy go to file okay first I have to compile now
clear screen no no no I have to first set class path right all are following up
boring am I confusing you are you feeling all are not required
or required if you feeling Bor I will stop then you have to run this
command program compiled successfully okay any of you are
confusing if you're confusing please tell okay if you miss the class don't
talk you attending last three classes Monday Sunday Monday Tuesday if you are
getting any confusions please ask I'm ready to explain okay if you miss the
classes and showing your talent what this nonsense what are you talking I'm not talking nonsense you are talking
nonsense when you are not dedicated your life to Java don't come to Java it's my
humble request okay many times I told you again I'm telling so when you cannot dedicate
your life to Java until course completed your personal work is most important
than this Java then better stay away from java you will not get anything because it's not a you
know no it is not a stories today one story tomorrow one story will not come
right every day you are learning new topics so if one day occasionally like
like a you know officer like officer you are coming and going and seeing my face
nothing will work okay right so up to now
understander right another question started from Sunday class so what the use of dis
folder sir okay that is Sunday class if you miss Sunday class what I can do cannot do
anything [Music] right class file ready this class is
compiled by using class path of classes. Jar file then what to do now for user
distributed folder required or not required
H for user program or distributed folder as of now required or not required not required but now I'll I'll make it
required now okay I'll make it required now listen listen listen then next tell me what should I do after this I should
execute now I want to execute uh I want execute two ways observe now the topic
is new topic starting from here I want to execute two ways
Java Java P2 do test if you want to run
Java P2 do test where you are in user where where test P2 package is available
bin I have to set class partner huh now very I said class path
right already existing class path is different what the existing class path it is it is a pointing to current
directory when you run listen sir when you run Java P2 DOT first compile jvm
searching for P2 according to class path in current directory user not available
checking in Li folder classes. J file Li folder classes. jar file P2 not there
then what happened now tell me it will throw error it will will throw error
exception exception in java.lang
dot okay we'll get this error P2 do
test next one more point I want write if you compile directly here we'll get a
compile time error
package package P1 is not found another
error class another
error cannot find
symbol Class A so these are the two errors we'll get
then we have to set class path then you have to compile same way if you run directly test we'll get exception to
solve this problem what I need to do any of you please tell me set class
path set class path equal to do semicolon lib slash already we have set
all these things now can I use percentage class path percentage semicolon bin
already I have set class path now why I need to repeat it again I want same class plus plus additional I'm writing
percentage class path percentage semicolon okay go there go to comment from clear screen now run Java P2
do
test we got error to solve this problem what set class path equal to percentage
class path percentage percentage semicolon huh what
you write now here bin then you run we getting
output hello I hope all you
understood but you want to executed as a regular program already we learned this point yesterday then what today we want
to execute we want to execute test program as executable jar file I want to
execute it from executable jar file why executable jar file sir listen carefully
now try to realize you wanted to share this project to the end user I mean to
your client then if I give this entire folder to the end user is it easy for
him to manage is it easy for us to send as a project number of folders are there if
at least one folder is missing then tell me complete project will not execute now
so I need to give project as a one single pack for example you have ordered
multiple items on Amazon then Amazon sending all those things each one individually to your home no no all are
sending as a pack now you take mobile you bought mobile then mobile has so
many items all these items are giving to you each one individually asking you to
assemble no no all these are packed into
single mobile and making it as what executable go and press the button go and press the
start button go and click on the start button it will start and then go and operate all the parts available in this
mobile so don't give your project to the end user in direct executable with as a
single file now like how Real Time products are giving to you same way you must give your product also as a single
file everybody got Clarity here so we have to make our user main method class
plus plus uh Library files whatever the supporting jar files Library files we
are using both as a single pack but now here it is available in two places Li
something and Bin something so it's clumsy I have to distribute to the user in a single jar file how can I write now
first I should create executable jar file now are you ready ready to prepare executable jar
file and tell me how can you prepare executable jar file go to H jar hyen
CBF following by new point you are learning new point two new points you are learning now please concentrate
known points completed revision two new points you are learning jar Hy cvf
following by now I'm taking main. I hope no confusion following by P2 do test
manifest file entry manifest file entry right and then following by the class
what you want uh now hyph C dot dot where you are in user only dot bin
following by dot okay now bin is already available in user only so not required of dot. Slash then
run run okay now added jar file okay main. jar file came B now if I run this
jar file how to run this jar file jar hyon cvf s sorry sorry sorry I have to run
Java hyphen jar following by I'm running main. J hello hello hello my texting 1 2
3 4 come on pay your attention here when I run main. jar file Java command going
into this jar file okay the moment it come to jar file it should it should
find what is the executable jar file then go to meta Hy INF go to manifest
file in manifest file it found main class go to P2 do test okay now come to
P2 do test come here in a P2 do test found inside P2 do test you are using
p1. hello hello hello hello inside you are finding P1 do p1. a then jvm
software should find p1. a yes or no where where it will find p1. a sir
already I've set the class path now sir using set class path it will go to Li folder in Li folder classes. jar file
right in classes. jar file available p1. will be there oh wonderful wonderful
wonderful point you told go on run
hello you got err error mic texting 1 2 3 4 mic texting 1 2 3 4 You Got error
all sleeping people wake up get up get up from the bed sit properly 2 minutes 2
minutes 2 minutes only 2 minutes control your sleeping after that not required
okay only two minutes only two minutes please try to wake up after that you can continue sleeping only two minutes
control your sleeping look at the screen please Java doesn't
use the class path we
created okay the class path you set in command prompt or the class path you set
in permanent settings it will not use are you catching my point if you run a
class from jar file it will not use the class path variable it has its own class path
configuration you have to do the configuration in main. jar main. jar is
a separate environment Java command will go into main. jar then started searching
for the classes in this main. jar file only accepted the statement searching
only in this main. jar file only in this main. jar file if P1 is not available it
will not come to the command prompt class path it will not use the command prompt class path it has its own class
path environment in a manifest in a manifest file you have to create one
more property here called class hyphen path colon okay now you must write
class where it is available lib in lib where it is available it is available in
it is available in classes. jar all catching my point save you have to do
class setting in the Manifest file hello I am saving from the man from the jar
file directly when you open the file from the jar file and try to save it then it will not directly save look at
that it is asking jip file rare software is asking Babu this file is modified
outside you want update in the archive yes click on yes after saving you should
click as on the jar file then open it now the class path is there okay close
this path close this file then go back to command prompt and run let's see will
it work or not everyone understand so jar file has
separate if you want to run a class from the jar file you should do additional
class path it will not work command prompt class path everyone
understand hello can I hope it's clear to all
now creating executable jar
file
what the commands we need to run clear screen First Command
this next [Music] command
this one then you got
error what there you got exception in thread
main exception java. cl. class not found exception p1.
a okay what the point note why this error coming
note Java command will not okay
when we run a class from jar
file Java command hey doesn't
use Java command doesn't use what Java command doesn't
use class path value
from set class path
or permanent class path
value okay
now we must set class path inside jar file
in manifest. MF
file are catching my point okay open step number one this is
manual
work step number one
open jar file by
using wind rare or wiip
software second
open manifest. MF
third using
any editor
software notepad
or edit plus if it is not
working sometimes it is will not work
extract extract to
folder add
class iphon add the
property class hyph path
colum libu SL
classes doj
fourth save it Arrow
click save button
on finr software
or
copy
okay this is manual work currently I'm teaching manual and programmatical how
to do I'll show you that later first I want you to manual programmatical also we can do we have a command uh then then
after doing this again
execute
okay now so will you do all this work so I want you first experience it
I'm sharing all this content to
our Facebook
page
practice this one again by yourself that is only the assignment tomorrow I will give you
small project assignment to develop after remaining portion completed I will give you assignment
tomorrow you practice
it
for okay edit plus I mean Facebook is not
maintaining the spaces properly I hope you can understand okay now SPAC is not
maintaining properly you should carefully manage them so don't
[Music] confuse so this is our Facebook ID you can go through
that right so that's all for the day see you
tomorrow tomorrow we'll complete the last five minutes discussion there and then I'll I will revise all the points
we have discussed up to now every Point all entry questions I will revise and I'll give you assignment you have to
work by your own clear thank
you

