ript


So hi everyone. Uh so we will be doing today
static routing like how uh two different locations talk to each other. Okay. So
let me open the tool packet tracer. So if anybody is new today uh please watch
uh the packet tracer video and the first practical we have done. Okay. So this is
a software we use for uh CCNA basic CCNA level practicals but there
are some advanced uh things we will be going to do also.
Okay. So what is the task today? So we are going to
the recording is on. Yeah. So we are going to connect two different locations. Okay. If you remember in the
last practical. Okay. So let me revise that last practical also. So in the last
practical what we have done. So you can see when you click on the router icon so
there are lot of routers and you can take this 2811 router or 2621. So
whatever model you want. Okay. So I'm taking this 4331.
Okay. So 4331 and last time we have taken two switches
and both uh switches are connected to some different different laptops.
Okay. Or maybe let's call this is server. Okay. So now what is this? So this is like one router with two
switches and some devices. So we are going to connect them with the
different networks. So why we are looking why we are adding a router.
Okay. So when you add this this is a link for cable. So when you click here
this is automatic cable. Okay. So this is the automatic cable and
automatic cable will add the cable between switch to router switches to computers all.
Okay. So now you can see we have added the devices and now this is FA01. What
is FA? FA stand for fast Ethernet. Okay. So this means 100 Mbps
port 100 Mbps and this is GIG which stand for Giga Ethernet which is like 1
Gbps. Okay. So this is giga Ethernet which is 1 Gbps. So now I click here and I can
click here. So now it is asking because when you add automatic cable it will add a port
uh like in any port. Okay. So randomly it will add in the any port. If you go for automatic cable, it will add
randomly. It will randomly select a port number. But if you click on the cable
automatically, you can see the cable came out from the switch. And when you click on the switch again, it is asking
okay, which port you want to connect because the router side is giga port. So
uh it's better you connect giga port with giga port. Now you can see giga port from router side and giga port from
the switch side. So basically the this switch if you zoom in so the first last
two ports you can see here these ports are giga ports to your 1 GB port and these are 1 GB ports and these are 100
Mbps ports these are 100 Mbps fast Ethernet ports and this model we have 2
gig ports. So now from router two and if you click on the router so you can see we have two
these two ports are my giga ports these two are my gigap ports okay so this is the last practical we have done and we
can take one network here let's say 1726
uh 1.1 okay so this is class B IP address
so remember if you have class B so the first two octed should be name. So class
B may in class B we check the first two digits. So but you can see 16 172 161.2
so 14. So this is my network and this is my gateway IP which I'm going to assign
to the router. Okay. So the another one so so the
another one giga port this side we can take any other IP let's take 10.0.0.1
0.1 this is the first IP address of class A and here in the server
10 002 10003 okay so this is the IP
okay so now we are going to
assign IP address. Okay. So this is the last practical I have already done. So
now I go to the so it's better we use notepad.
Okay. So notepad will help us to understand the commands more easily. So
you notepad use so that we can write the commands. Okay. So remember,
okay. So this is the router. So first I have to enable the router. I have to
enable the router. After that I say configure terminal. Just hold on.
Config terminal. Okay. Host name.
So you can give any name. Let's say R1. interface GI G00 0
IP address 17216.1.1
okay
so what is this basically I'm assigning IP address on this port so this port is
interface so in is a short form but if you want to write full you can write interface because The port is called
interface interface GIG0000 IP address 17261.1
and this is my subnet mask because if you remember in class A
like uh if you remember the range so that is 1 to 126 okay so any network
start with 1 to 126 it has a subnet mask 255.0.00 0 0 because the f only we check
the first part remember in class A we check
the first part N H so this is my network part that's why it
is 255 because in class A we only check the first digit and that should match my
other computer so you can see the first digit 10 10 10 is matching in the class
A so in class A we check only first digit in class B which starts Start from
128 to 191. So that is 25525 0 0. Okay.
So that is uh
NH. Okay. And then in the C class we have
192 to 223
3 * 255 because this is class C. So now here in this practical I'm taking class
B address and this side I'm using class C address. Okay, we can use class C also
we can use both side class A means you can use any subnet but it should be different. Okay, so we can take here
11.0.0.1 also. Okay, so we can take this also. So
it is just like you can use any network because in production network network could be anyone to up company main real
networks network could be any network it could be a class B class C class. So but
you have to remember why we are placing this router here because router is the
device which help us to connect with the two different networks. So right now this computer cannot talk to this server
even if I put a cable between switches. Huh? Even if I add a cable between switches, they cannot talk to each
other. Let me show you. Okay. If I go to the computer
desktop. Okay. So, default gateway means uh uh the exit
the gateway. The gateway is called default gateway. The router IP 17261.1.
Okay. Okay, the other side
1002. Okay, so 10001 is my gateway. Okay, so
router I have not configured but and switches we do not have to configure right now because they are plug and play
devices. Sometimes we configure according to our advanced configuration
but as a normal user we have not configured just added the computers in the switches. And now if I go to the
first computer and if I try to ping another network 10002 okay so the computer will check okay
computer has a ARP you can see ARP there is no entry but we will not generate ARP
for different so if I try to ping the device will say
requested timeout so it means I don't know my device I'm not able to find this
IP address in my network because my computer is in 17260 network and this
network is in another network. So if I want to talk to another network, I need
my default gateway. I need my default gateway. Okay, so if I remove this link
from here, okay, because it is not required because you cannot connect two different networks with the switches. I
need a router. I added a router here and this is the command like I have
configured enable configure terminal host name. This is how you go to the router by typing enable and then config
t. So once you are in the configuration mode then you change the device name
host R1. Let's see. We go to CLI. First we type no always
enable. After that configure terminal after that you say interface. Okay let's change the
name first host name let's say R1. Okay you can see instantly name change to R1
when once I changed enter. Okay. After that interface
GIG0000 IP address 172161.1
and 2 * 255 because this is class B. So I'm using class B subnet mask and no
shutdown. Okay. So this is the last practical. I'm not teaching a new thing today. So
obviously right now but after this practical we will do two routers practical also because some of you guys
have not revised because the valid days. So interface gig00001
IP address 10.0.0.1 this is class A. So in class A we use
12500 no shutdown. So once I enter this IP, what is the
first command? You can check show ip
interface brief. Okay. So this means my router has two
interfaces. I have given 172.1 and these are up up. Up means they are fine. Their
connection is fine. And GI00001 I have given 10001. They are also up. Okay. So
now both are added. Both are connected. And now let's try to ping the same IP
10002. And this time let's see it will ping or not.
Yes, we got the ping. So now first packet got dropped because to go to this
network 10002 to go to 10002 I need my default gateway
MAC address because this router GI0000 if I say show interface GI G00 0. So you
can see this interface this port also has a MAC address D0000001.
So it means my computer will learn my gateway MAC address. If I say R Python A. So you can see D001.
This is the same MAC address what I have shown in on the router port GI0000
because my computer if you try to communicate outside the network I need
my default MAC address also. So this happens in the real world obviously. If
I show my uh what we call okay so you can see uh I think this is
my router IP and this is the MAC address my computer has already learned here
okay so already my computer is also learning my default gateway MAC address and these are my different uh IPs maybe
some devices I'm not sure okay but this is my router MAC address okay so this is
the uh uh so This practical we have done last time and you can see we are able to
communicate from one network to another but today we consider this is one location now we are adding so let's call
this delete okay so like consider this is building A
okay instead of calling so let's say this is building A
I hope it is visible yeah so now it is visible more.
Okay. So, just hold on. So,
so my servers are visible. My router my router A is also visible. Okay. So
now what I'm trying to do now. Okay. So we will add one more router. Okay. We
will add one more switch. Okay. And this like we can add some computers or
laptops. So this is like my different department maybe my admin department fee
collection department any any department. So it could be marketing department.
Okay. Okay. So, we added the ports.
Okay. So, now I'm adding the cable.
Okay. So, now what is happening? This error will come. The cable cannot be connected to the port. Why I'm not able
to connect with the port? Because this router by default it has only two ports. Okay. Okay. And remember if I shut down
if I shut down the router there is a port. This is the button. If I click
here so my configuration will be removed because right now whatever I have typed
here whatever commands I have entered that is in the RAM because we have two
configuration here. One is called running configuration. So when I say show running configuration so you can
see host name is R1. there is some IP. Okay. So this is like my current
configuration. This is called running configuration. Running means the configuration I just did.
So all the changes what I have made recently they will go in the running config. Okay. But when even if router
reload or power fluctuation if anything goes wrong with router so router load
the configuration which is called startup. So you can see startup configuration is not present because
this is a new router. I have I have configured this router recently. I have
configured this router recently. So what I have to do to make sure that router
will not lose the configuration there is a shortcut command write. So if you say write automatically my running
configuration my running configuration will copy in the startup. So this is the bigger
command if you want to remember this copy running configuration go startup
because my all configuration in the running. So copy the content of running config into startup and enter. So this
is the same thing I did with the write command. So this is your choice. You want to give write or you want to give
the full command copy. Both has same meaning. Both have same meaning. Okay.
Both have same meaning. So there is no difference. It is to save the configuration. And now if I say startup
so you can see in the startup configuration also there is a host name, there is IP. So why it is required?
Because I'm going to shut down this router. Now why we are shutting it down? Because I want to add extra port because
by default I have only two ports.
extra SFP. We'll discuss what is SFP. So I have to shut it down. Now you can see
this is my fiber port. I have to drag. Drag means mouse button. Drag from the
mouse and drop here. So now you can see there is some this type of line. Okay.
So this is not a square now. So I hope you guys can see. I cannot zoom from my
side. So but yes this is how we add extra two ports. Okay. So maybe we can add here
also but I don't need much ports. So this is a cover. So you can add cover.
Okay. Like this. Uh we can't add a cover here maybe. Okay. But yes. So it is just
a cover. So you can see we just added two port and let me on the router again.
So why the right command was important? Because now I reloaded the router and router will load my previous
configuration because I saved it with the right command. So what is happening this if you remember in the last class
this is like copy the content of my uh iOS from flash to RAM to the software
load. So this is like we are loading our software. It was in flash memory but now
the content from flash memory is copied into RAM. Okay. So please watch the last
class. So router is loaded. Everything is fine. Okay. Now I'm able to add a
cable. Let's see. Yes, we are able to add extra cable here. Now port is
GI00002. So between these two routers also I have to add a network. So let's say we will
use uh 200.1.1. So this is a class C. So this is class
C. So remember you have to all you have to remember A B C subnet mask because
sometimes you get confused the people who are freshers or beginners.
Okay. So remember this. So in class A we have 25500 0. So now 200 IP belongs to
which class C. So in C class whenever I give IP I have to assign this subnet
mask because here in class C we have three times network and two one one host
part. So portion first three portions are from network. Okay. So now on
GI00002 so this is the configuration GI001.
So I have given here uh 10 0 0.
Okay. And we have an extra new port today. So interface
GI00002 IP address 200.1.1.
Okay. Okay. So we will go to interface GI00002.
Okay. So I copy pasteed here. You can see. So the beauty of notepad like whenever you type on the notepad you can
copy but you have to make sure you are writing the correct lines. There should be no spelling mistakes. What this is
what I'm trying to teach you. So if you type on notepad you can directly copy
paste everything on the router. You can see host name interface. So you can do that also. If you do it multiple times
don't worry it will because these are the same thing these are the same commands uh like these are the same IPs
already assigned to the router. There is no problem. Okay. Okay. But yes if you type any wrong
different IPs then router will override. If you copy paste with different IPs, it
will override. It will remove the previous IPs and it will uh add the new IPs.
Okay. So we have added 200.1.1 this side. So now this is like B router.
Let's say this is the B router. In the B router, we will have a uh LAN network also. So
let's say this is my uh 17216.2.1.
So remember this 1.1 is different network 17262.1
is a different network because in class B
we check first two portion so can we use this? No, we cannot use this because
this network 1726 is already assigned on this side. Okay, we can assign with
subnetting but right now we are not learning. So, so it's better we change the network to maybe let's say 20.1.1
170. Now this is like a different network. Okay. So different network.
So we say 172 20.1.2 this side is 172.
Okay. 8% battery
charger port just hold on. Okay. Okay. So let me configure this first.
Okay. So this is router B. So I'll go to this configuration and type here uh
router B. So this is the same what we are going to do with the router B like
router enable configure terminal host name B. Okay. So host name here let's
say A. Okay. Okay. So after that which interface GIG00001
IP address interface 20012
no shutdown. Okay. and the other side GI0000
interface. See guys if you find if you're thinking
this is difficult so maybe
if you have practiced the previous class then it is easy.
Okay so what we are doing here in this router we are giving IP. So IPS I have
already written. You can do the same practical by looking at the video or maybe uh uh once the class is over you
can practice by looking the video again and again. Okay. So I hope everyone knows that you can watch all recordings
uh from uh I think uh the learn portal. So where you can watch the previous
recordings. So how many IP we have given on GI00001 we have given IP on GI0000.
So these two IPs I'm assigning to the router. Just hold on
guys. I'm audible right? Because Prashant is saying no audio sir. I'm
audible. Yes. Okay.
Take. Thank you. Okay. So interface GI001 GI0000
all. Okay. So this is what I'm going to copy paste in router B. So remember copy
from the enable and paste when you say no because this is auto
setup copy because when you copy from enable make sure you paste in the user mode but if you copy from config mode so
then remember you have to manually say enable here. Okay. So it depends from where you copy. Okay. If I enable here
then I do not have to type copy paste enable because I have already given the enable. Okay. So if you have already
given the configure terminal so then you do not have to add config. So directly
you can copy paste from here. So it totally depends if you are in user mode then copy from config mode. If you have
not enabled the router then copy directly mode. Okay. If you are already in the
configuration mode then no need to type enable config again. Okay. Okay. So you
directly put a host name, IP address. Okay. So you can see we have added host
name, we have given the IPs, the interfaces are up. These are the messages we are getting that interfaces
up. All all all all things happened simultaneously. S. So when you say show
ip interface brief, you can see we have got two IPs. Okay.
All IPs are up up. So now it is just we have to go to the computer.
Okay. 1.1. Okay. So we have given the
IP. Okay. So if I try to ping from this computer because we have given
all the lights are green. So if you see any red light here in packet tracer it means you have not given the no shutdown
command because remember with after every port you have to give no shutdown and if you have given one time no need
to give again and again. Okay just
Okay.
H so this is the configuration and uh if I try to ping from this computer
1721.2 okay so 19.2 say from 1.2 let's ping
17020.1.2 two. Okay. So, we have given the gateway also. So, let me check first my
computer. Can we ping from this computer to the gateway? So, obviously yes,
because we have given the commands properly 20.1.1. So, yes, I can ping
from my computer to my gateway. So, there is no problem in the connectivity.
Can I ping from router to router B? So, router B IP 20.2. Let's try
ping 200.1.1.2. So let's see. So from router to router
also you can ping and you can see I'm able to ping router B. Okay, let's say
this name is router A. So router A can ping router B. Yes,
router B is pingable. Okay, pingable is not the right word guys. Okay. So this
is just we normally say in India pingable pingable means reachable. Reachable is the correct word. Okay.
Yes. Comput router A can reach router B. So it is reachable. Okay. It is
reachable. So there is no problem. We can ping from here to router router to here. Okay. But can we ping from 1.2
1761.2 to 17220.1.2. So let's take a poll.
And let's say what will be your answer
PC 1721.2 can ping 17220.1.2.
Let's say the choice is yes or no.
Okay, please check the poll guys.
So PC 1721.2 can ping 17220.1.2.
Some says yes, some says no.
Guys, everyone should vote. Okay.
Okay. So, 53% Indians and everyone basically not Indians. So all students
like 52% said no and some people are playing with the
button sometimes yes or no okay so the result is
I have already shared you can see so 49% people
do not know anything about networking
Looks like they are very new in the IT networking. So obviously
uh uh remember one thing guys
you cannot ping one from one location to another location without routing. Okay
because router speaks some language between each other. So router will share
his information with this router and the router B will share with the router A
that is called routing. So what we have to do we have to do routing. This is the
whole CCNA CCNP is all about routing and switching. Routing means if I try to
ping 172 20.1.2
two I'm not able to ping because when my packet will go to router now they
getting destination host unreachable who is telling me the router A 1.1 is
telling me because when you forward a packet so packet forward when you
forward a packet to router A router A check the routing table okay so let's
see router A show ip route where I have to go. I have to go 17220.1.2.
So router will check okay one of my computer wants to go to this location. Let me give the direction to the PC and
router will say network not in the table. Even if you directly check show ip route you cannot see that 17220
network here. So these are the network show IP route connected. So these are my
directly connected router means router knows about 10 network. Router knows about 1726 network. Router knows about
this 200 network. This 10 network mean if you very easy thing like just move
router like this in packet tracer. How many cables are moving these three
networks? My router knows. Do you see router B cable is moving? LAN network
move. Router B LAN cable is moving. No. So that means obviously in real world
you cannot go and move to move the routers like here and there. Right? So this is just a example to teach you that
we cannot go to the real world and just move the routers like this. Right? So so
this is just uh I'm telling you as a beginner that in packet racer how you will remember that I'm which network I'm
able to ping. So remember router knows by default about it directly connected.
So by default router knows only it his own IP addresses his own networks. So
router A 200 IP 10 network IP 172 IP. So
these are my IP addresses. I know these addresses but I don't know 1721.1.
And one more thing which is important that routers facing each other
the routers which are facing each other like router A and router B. So they are
also in same network. Why they are in same? Because they will share they are like friends. They will talk to each
other on one same network. Okay. Obviously router is used to connect different network. This is different
network. This is different network. This is different network. So we are using
routers so that we can talk to different different networks. But when routers are connected
like face to face they should be in the same network because they will share information with another router like
they are like friends and they are helping us to communicate from one
router to another but by default they are not talking. We as a network
engineer we have to do something. Okay, which will help router to find the
router B addresses and there are three ways. Okay, static routing, default
routing, dynamics. So let's say how we will talk today static routing which is
like manual configuration. We will go to router A and we will manually add the
route of router. We will go to router A. We will go to
configure terminal and we will say IP route there is one network which is
17220. Okay, remember we have to only add network ID.
So network ID is 1720.1. No, if you type this IP only computer
can ping the gateway not 1.2. If you type 1.2 only we can ping 1.2 not 13.
Then who is like house of IP? There should be some IP which is like house of
IP. So you can check in router B show IP route connected. So what is my network
ID? 172000 is my network ID. This is my house of IP
address. This is my home address. This is the home address of this network because this is class B. So two times
remember in class B we have 2 N. So it means we will only type 172
172. So if any computer has IP.1, we will only check 172
20 then 0 0. Why? Because we have only two portion. Okay. If I talk about class
A network ID like the IP 10001. So class is NH only first portion 10 all
zeros. H should be always zero in the network ID. So in class B the H part is
0 0. Okay. In class C like 200.1.1.1. So here 3 * N andN. So network ID would
be 200.1.1.0. So host part should be zero. And you
will get your network ID. So what is my network ID of this network? 1720.00.
What is? So we will add here 17220.0.0.
So what is by default subnet mask of class B 2 * 255?
255 255 0 0. Okay. So now tell me how
in router we are adding this command from which router I'm getting all these details. I'm getting all these details.
I'm getting this all details from which router from this router B
right we are getting all these detail from the router B so packet will come
from this side right so when you ping from this side the packet will come like this from router B so who is telling
router A about this network router B so what is the router B IP address 200.1.12
so this IP is called next hop IP means
network who is helping me to go to my destination that is my neighbor my
neighbor is called next hop so this IP after adding the root after adding
network ID after adding subnet mask I have to add my neighbor IP who is
helping me to go 200.1.12 that's it and when you enter after that
You say show ip route static because this is called static
route. So I have added one network in the static connected is like directly
connected. These are my default networks. This network I added you can
check all these detail in show ip router here also. So all these are like CCC but
in between you can see one single line static. So we have added the link manually. We have added the network ID
manually. And now what will happen? There is no
problem. Packet will go from computer to router. Now router
already know how to forward the traffic. It will forward to this router. Router be already know where is my network. It
will forward to this. But when the packet comes back the packet when the
packet comes back so this computer will say to router router I want to go back
and router will ask okay where so your computer will say I want to go back to 17261.0
zero and now router will check router B will check okay show ip route because I
want to go back right I should have a reverse path
so you can see router B don't know how to go to 172 network it means in router
B we also have to add one network
okay we will add configure terminal IP route 17216.0.0
and the next hop who is helping me to go to this network this router which is a
router. So a router router a is 200.1.1.
That's it we added. And let's try to ping.
Can we ping now? Let's see. Yes, we are able to ping guys. We connected two different locations. Today location we
have added two locations and now I'm able to ping.
But do you think the servers can ping this computer now? Yes. Tell me in the chat server ping
that servers can ping these computers
again some people are saying no or yes. So do okay tell me we do we have to add
17220 in this network. So when you server wants to go so when server say I
want to go it packet will go to router A router will check okay show ip route I
want to go to 172 so network is already there you can see I know this route with
static and all so I already know this path I already know how to go to this
destination okay so it's easy I can go from server to router router will
forward to router B. Router B will forward because router B is connected directly. But when the packet comes
back, it will ask, okay, router B, do you know where is 1000 network? And here
the game changes. Router B. Router B will check. Okay, I want to go
back to route. So you can see there is no 10 network. There is no 10 network.
I don't have the backup path because router A has two networks. Router A has
two networks. So that's why in com router B we have to add two roots. So we
have already added one root. We have already added one root by typing this
command. If you remember network add we have already added this network. Now I'm
going to add another network. IP route 1000 0
Okay. So 10 0 0 0 this is 255. This is class A. And again
who is helping me? 200.1.1.1. So we have added both networks. So
whenever traffic goes back from router B, router B will check the static route
and forward the traffic to 200.1.1.1. So let's try to ping now.
So let's ping from 10002 to ping 172 20.1.2.
Yes, I can ping now.
Yes, I can ping now. So what static route I have added? Remember
this is the only one after giving IP I just added one command in this practical
that is IP route. So let me add here somewhere.
Okay. So this is the command I added in the router A. But in router B I added
two commands because in router A we have two networks. If you add only one it will ping only one network. If you add
both then you can ping both networks. So in router B we added two different
networks here. Okay. So I'll take a 5 minutes break and
come back. Okay. So till the time you guys can try to do this lab in your
pract 10 minutes do it. Okay. Or just uh then
take a class today and do it tomorrow. Sir for router week you added incorrect
network instead of you added no no no 1721.0 Zero is the not. So pil the class
this is class B bro. So I told you in class B
if I give any network in class B you can see I added the
correct network. This side is 170 to 16 and in router A we have the correct
17020. I have to add you have to add destinations.
You have to add in router A who is the destination? This is the destination. In
router B who is the destination? Destination is opposite side networks
are destination. Okay. So if we route one side can we get ping reply? No. As
aim ping means you forward the traffic and ping will come back. Okay. So
whenever I say ping so you can see you are getting reply. So it means packet will go like this and packet will come
from that side also. So this is what we call ping reply and this is why we use
in networking because ping will help us to test the network. So when I go to
terminal and I say ping google.com. So it means it does not mean that I can go
to Google. It means Google can also come to me because Google is replying me to
Google reply whenever. So ping is a tool to check the connectivity between sender
and receiver. So both side traffic I can also forward that Google can also send
traffic to me. This is what we call ping. Okay. So take a break five minutes
guys. Uh Rafi I'll tell you what is GI00001
Okay, I'm back.
Sir if you're typing IP or PC auto written like PC 0 is how so it is just
uh Hussein so whenever you add a computer now so like uh if I add a
computer here so just click here like this okay so it will it is like a
notepad file you can type any IP okay you can write here like this so
just click on that number and you can type anything okay so this is how I added IPs like this.
Okay. So, it is like notepad file.
There is ARP table in router. Yes. Shim router also has a ARP table because router also learn MAC addresses. So, you
can see show ARP. So, right now all the computer MAC addresses. Okay. Whatever
networks they belong to, you can see all the MAC addresses of the computers of
the connected networks only. Okay. So you cannot see 17220.1.2.
You cannot see that MAC address here because that router is not connected to
that network. You are connected indirectly with static route. Okay. But
any network from this PC, any network from this PC or even the opposite side
also router is also in my network. only your network uh routers and computers
you are going to store in the ARP table. So ARP is nothing just we add the MAC
address so that we will be able to forward the traffic with the correct MAC
address. So this is good lab guys. I hope you guys understand and sir please show how
and which module should add for gigaport. Omesh whenever you add any router like in my practical we added
4331. Okay. So when I want to add extra port I zoom in from here and I make sure the
router is off from this button. And now you can see the last GLC.
Okay. So this is like one uh SFP which is fiber SFP. So I added like this.
Okay. So these are copper SFP. So what is SFP? So what modules I added here in
packet tracer.
So if I go to so you can see Cisco SFP.
Okay. Copper. What is SFP? SFP are like these are the uh small ports. This is
what we added in the router. to router. Okay. So these are the cables
okay which are added in the Cisco switches or router. So Cisco router SFP
copper like this. So you can see so at the back side
we will be able to add you can see like these are the ports. Okay. So these are
the cables. So if it is so these are fiber cables. Okay. Some cables are
copper cables. Okay. So depend on the connectivity you add
the modules because these are norm not normal ports. These ports can be very
high bandwidth to you income SFP. Okay. So these are SFP XFIP
lot of things. So you can see here. So these are SFP model which is called
small form pluggable adapter. These are called small form pluggable
module which are for different different cables. So for for Ethernet it is
different for fiber it is different. Okay. So according to the type of connectivity we have this. Okay. So then
we have SFP plus. So SFP+ is like from like around 10 GB uh speed that is
called SFP plus. Then we have XFP which is like like uh 10 GB
transceivers. Okay. So SFP is around 1 GB. Okay. SFP plus is also like
approximately 10 GB. Okay. Not exactly proper. Okay. But it is in the range of
10 Gbps to 8.5 Gbps fiber. Then we have SFP 10 Gbps. Okay. And then we have
another one which is to depend on the speed also Q SFPB.
Okay. So quad S small form factor pluggable in the speed it can go up to
like 40 GB also QSFP. Okay. So what is the capacity? So this
is QSFP what is the difference? So whenever you get a time so this is not related to our content but this is
related to more of cabling and all. So if you get a time just have a look on this type of blog. Okay.
So just try to check what is this. Uh maybe you can get some video regarding
this on internet. Okay. You can see SFP versus QSFP transceivers
experiencing perfection syndrome. So some ad is
okay. So okay. So you can see these are the modules and gigabit ethernet. This
is how we add. So randomly so these the this type of knowledge I would also recommend you to try to watch these type
of things also. What is this SFP QSFP and all so it will automatically add in
your knowledge. Okay. add in your uh memory so that if somebody asks you randomly so you should know about these
technologies. Okay. So this is uh okay so this is what we did practical
obviously. So now two locations are added. Two locations are added.
I have seen return to NGB. Okay. So now what we are going to do we will
if you want to practice more advanced thing okay you can add a third router
also okay in the same practical what I suggest you save this save this with the
name like static routing something like that okay and now now what we can do we
will add one more router okay I'm not sure how small it is
visible now. Okay. So let's add one more router, one more location. Again the
same concept. Uh we will save the router B configuration. Right? Okay. So first
do this practical till now. I want everyone to consider this is static
routing practical one. Now I'm adding another router. Now consider this is
practical two. So router C. Let's add router C.
So what I'm going to do I'm just going to remove all static routes. Okay. So
how to remove any static route. So you can go to show running config because all your configuration in the running
right. So you can see this is my static route. And if I want to remove I just
say no. Just type no and then paste the static route. It will remove the static
route. Okay. So I have to remove from router B also. So show running. So in
the last you can see we have two static route. Copy and then config T no. Paste
and no. So in the both lines you have to say no no. And again if you try to ping
now the you cannot ping again. Again the same like earlier
it is like without configuration you cannot ping. So now we added the router
C. In router C uh in router C let's call this is one of
more one of the location uh h let's add a switch
we add again computers. Okay.
Okay. So, CCA it was in my college. Okay. So, like we used to connect five
routers, 10 routers, sometimes even 10, 15, 15 routers for static routing
practical only. Okay. So, this is how much practice we have done.
So anyone from any college they have CCNA
or like packet tracer practicals you guys have done it.
Okay. Gotham is saying yes. Okay. So raise hand. How many of you
have experienced CCNA or a little bit of packet tracer in college days?
Okay. Where are others guys? Where are your cameras? See, nobody's we are not
live today on YouTube. Don't worry. Even you have not washed your face. Still you
can turn on.
Okay. Okay. So, most of you say no.
Okay. Okay. And some colleges there are some
colleges are basically Ciscomies. Okay. So
Cisco Academy like I remember like in mostly good
colleges also like M University
like in our side in Chandigar side we have Chitkara University, Tapar University. Okay. So in these colleges
even in good more colleges like VIT or Institute of Technology. Okay. some good
colleges. Yes, SRM, IM, I I not IT, triple IT.
So these colleges have little bit of CCNA. Okay. So, so
basically not whole syllabus of CCNA in one semester. So the CCNA earlier it was
like let me tell you if you really want to learn more advanced thing so very so
there are some exploration books okay so one is called season exploration
okay so there are almost four books I think char books
yeah so the first one is called network fundamental okay this is the I'm telling
you this is not how you are going to learn CNA because it will take a lot of time because this is like pure from zero
to uh like you have to spend a lot of times. Okay, you can see network
fundamental. Then we have a book called routing protocol and concepts. Then we have another book which is like
switching LAN switching and wireless. And the fourth book was accessing the van. So in my four semesters I read one
by one like like almost uh uh like for a year more than a year we have studied
CCNA and only in my college only we have covered three parts network fundamental
routing LAN switching so now you understand now like I have studied CCNA
for almost uh like in depth basically the more and
more in depth you learn the more and more interviews you here. Okay. So, and these are very old. I'm
not recommend you to buy. But yes, if you really want to learn, so just try to check CCNA.
Uh I think the books are a little costly in India. So because they are international editions, okay? So it's
better to go with the PDF versions. I will check if I got the links. But you
do not have to read it right now. Okay? Because if you because these books are not for the nor what we call engineers
or the people who are working in industry. They are for the university students.
You can see this is the first book and this book is again from one university
some CE student something. Okay. So I'm sharing this book not right now
after my course or when you get free time then read these books. Okay. And
again you can see uh these are like OSI model
OSI model the first eight chap 300 pages of OSI model. Can you imagine 300 pages
of OSI model.
class.
Okay. So obviously in interviews we do not have to go in in that depth. All the
important things I have already trained you guys. Okay.
Important because you are not preparing for university exams. You are preparing for
the industry. So we have to go obviously we have to learn very very important
things. Okay. But yes, I'm just sharing that uh sept extra knowledge because if
some people have much time to learn, so it's better you can start reading these books also in free time. I have already
shared the link in the chat. Yeah, these are very time consuming I
know but the more time you learn the more better you become, right?
So now you can see we have added the router C and now automatic cable I'm
trying to add. Again the problem comes because router B do not have more than two ports. So also in router B we have
to save write command. Now we shut down the router.
Okay. So we add extra port. Okay. So what I recommend you you just
make sure you add one router and copy paste the router. So you can see Ctrl Ctrl + V and now when you copy paste the
router in that router the modules are already there okay even the configuration sometimes get copied okay
so you can do that also so that you do not have to add module again and again okay so what I'm trying to say so
whenever you take a router so first router you add all the modules okay so
now second and third router instead of taking it from the downside You copy paste these routers multiple times and
these routers you do not have to add module again and again because we copied from the first router where we added the
modules. Okay to this is like a easy trick so that you do not waste time.
Okay. So now router C is added and now router is on also
you can see we got the previous configuration. Why we got the previous configuration? Because we have given the
right command. So whenever you give a right command, it will load the previous configuration. Let's add a cable.
Okay. So now this between these two networks, router B and C, I'm adding one
extra network like maybe 205.1.1 and this side like 205.1.1.2.
Okay. So guys again I'm telling you nobody covers static routing 33 44
router practical okay generally it takes lot of time
but yes why I'm telling you so that you get more understanding of static routing
okay but if you really want to learn more so
it's better to add more and more routers for more practice okay so now let's say
1725 5.1.1. So this is again a different network. If
you see the second digit which is different from 20. Okay. So this is my network ID. This is my 1.2 253.
So this is going to be my network. So
so router B. And now let's say
so we can copy paste the router B configuration. You can see I copied from router B and now I just change router C
host name C GI00001 we have to give here
17225 1.1.1 yes
and in GI0000 we have to give okay uh sorry this side is 205
this IP belongs to GI0000 and this side 2005.1 1.1.2.
Okay. So, we copied router C. Enable. Copy
host router C. No. And paste.
You can see we copy pasted the correct things. Sometime students complains are I'm not able to copy paste. So remember
you have to write lines properly. If you type mistakenly there is no space. And
if you just type host name like see it will not work. Okay. So even if you give
space anywhere like if you say IP without space add ad means address.
Okay. Short form. Okay. So don't get confused. Some commands are like shortcut. Okay. But
you can write full also. So now we added router C but still this
cable is not up. So remember in router B we added extra cable. So we have to add
in router B. In router B port in router B we got another port which is like
interface GI0000 to 205.1.1
like this. Okay. So we copy paste
enable. So now I'm copying from interface. So I should add in the config
mode. I should be in the config mode because I type interface command in the config mode.
Paste. And now the link is up. So now when all these links are like this, it
is very very difficult for us to remember. Okay, which route we have to
add, which route I should not add. So the easy easy thing when you do static
routing practical I would recommend everyone when you do three or four or
five routers practical just note all the network ids okay so let's add in the
network ID so tell me what is the network ID of this network 17216
let me write down in the notepad s network ID so let's add so the first
network ID is 72. Okay. Or simply go to the router and say
show ip route connected. Show ip route connected. So these are my all network ids. Copy in
the notepad.
Right. And just remove these lines with this slash value.
I'm just removing these lines because I copied from the router
one. So this is one of the trick I tell all my students even if you can do you can
do five 7 10 routers practically with static routing and if you ask any CCNP
guy also they will be confused in these practicals. Okay. So but my students will be able to
cover. So now you can see router B show ip route connected. So these are my
networks. Okay. So make sure you do not add double entries. Okay. Duplicate entries you
will be going to remove. Okay. So now you can see 172 is unique.
We will keep this 200 1 0 0. This is already added. So let's remove this
line. So we have to add all networks and how we got these network ids from
the route connected command which display my directly connected network ids. So router is also very useful
because router is also telling my own network show ip route connected that
these are my network ids.
Okay. Okay. So now these are my three not I think I have not copied properly.
Okay. So I hope everyone can see this network 2500 0. Okay. And 205 is already
added here. Right. So I will not add here. So now these are my unique network
ids. Yes. So let me write down my subnet mask also. 2550. This is class A.
Then we have class B 2 * 0 0.
In all class B I added this is class C 3 * 255.
Okay. So now these are all my network ID. So let me write one command IP route in front of that.
Okay. So very simple, very cool. So now just we go to router A. Okay. And we
compare. Okay. Show ip route static. Obviously I don't have and in the in the
when you say show ip route. Okay. You can check here also. It's better you
check show ip route uh connected and after that static. So I have only these
three networks. So now tell me which networks I don't have in router A.
Very simple. Just look at the router A and this
which networks I don't have. I think these three networks I don't have in router.
Right. Yes. because the first three networks router A already have the below three
networks I don't have and then and how router A is going to get all these
networks router A has only one location which is connected to only one location
router B IP 20 this is the next hop so it means I'm going to add next hop
200.1.1.2 two. This is the only exit side for router A.
And this is my all full static route commands. Copy in the router.
Done. All done guys. Let's go to router B. Very simple. Not much take much time.
Let's go to router B. Router B. Show IP route 17220.
Okay. 17220 already have 2. Okay. Let we
don't have 10. We don't have 10. Okay. We don't have 172 16 0 0. Okay.
I don't have B. Okay. So I have 2011. I already have uh 20. I already have 205.
I already have. Okay, this network also I don't have. Okay, but B is little tricky because B
some networks are on the left side, some are on the right side. Okay, so
which network is some networks are on the right side, some networks are on the
right side. So the three networks I know that I have to add three networks in
router B. Okay. So 10 is on the left side right 10 is on the left side. So
who is going to the next top? 200.1.1.1 right? So when you go left side the next
top is 200 because my neighbor IP is called the
next top 17216. 17216 is also this side left
side. So again left side is 200.
Okay. But 17225 that is here you can see
17225. So it means my next stop will be 205.1.1.2
right? So 2051.1.2.
So you 2005
very simple just in B we have to make sure whenever we add static route you do
not type the wrong nexttop because some networks are on the left side so it
means we have to add the left side nexttop 200.1.2 to and if anything on
the right side we have to add 205. So packet traffic whatever roots I'm adding
whatever destination networks I'm adding they are on which side they are on the left side or they are on the right side.
So we added now very simple router C which is again the third router and uh
show I only I have two networks 1725. I have only 172 and 205. So it means the
four these four networks should be added in the router C. Okay. and router C has
only one side which is 2005 because router C is taking everything from one
side that is the nexttop 205.12
okay so if you are not able to understand watch this class multiple times you will understand okay so Again,
I'm not expecting that you do three routers today or tomorrow. I want you to
cover at least router A, router B, that's it. But if you get a separate time of till my next week classes, okay,
by next Monday, I want at least you should try three routers, okay? But as
of now, for tomorrow or for tomorrow, I I'm expecting that you should know two
routers practically. Okay? If you don't know three routers that's okay but it's
it's better for you to learn three routers also.
So normal
and you feel like you are able to understand because if you do practical only two routers you feel like yes it's
easy to learn static routing but in some complex scenario you will not be able to solve static routing that's why I'm
teaching you this okay so now in router C you can see we have only one xtop
2005.1.1 1.1.
Okay. So we have so with our shortcut by getting all my network ids then we
compare and just we are we are going to copy paste the missing ones. Okay I'll
go to router C now we go to config T.
See paste. That's it guys. Very fast, very
logical catcher. So elegant, so beautiful looking. Wow. The practical is
like that only. So paste. Okay. Router B.
And let's go to router A.
Okay. So router A I think router A we copied properly.
uh router B we copied. Okay.
So make sure you add a correct command. Sometimes we mistakenly add
wrong static routes in different router. Okay. So make sure you add the right
else you will not be able to communicate. Okay. So let's try ping end to end. So
first let's try 1.2 to 20.1.2. Okay. So let's ping 20.1.2.
Yes shake don't worry if I have 50 router that means I have to type multiple. Yes. So Rafy static routes are
only for smaller organizations. Okay. Because we have dynamic protocols.
Okay. So static routing is for smaller organizations
company. Okay. For smaller organization or sometimes big companies also use sometimes but in whole big company they
will not use static routing. Okay. But static routing is very much reliable
because you are doing it manually. Okay. This is more secure. This is more reliable because you are doing because
network engineers are doing manually. That's why uh like uh because when you
see after adding when you say show ip route static it has very small number
one one is called rank like if you played trump cards okay that rank one is
curt angle big show all those or cricket in number one is this player so rank one
or if you give any exam rank one is the best right so the same way static routing rank which is called ad which is
called administrative distance trust worthiness of a routing table.
The smaller the number the router is going to trust that more. So it's just
remember static routing has one number which is rank one. Okay. If you
configure OPF, if you configure BGP, so static routing will beat any protocol
static routing because it has the best AD value. Okay, we will definitely learn
AD value concept also. But as of now, you understand this is more reliable and
better. But for big or it is not scalable
networks, it is not scalable. We cannot use this in big networks. Okay.
Okay. So now you can see we have seen static routing. We are able to ping from
this computer to this computer. So we will be able to ping 1.2 to this 25.1.2.
Let's ping 25.1.2.
Okay. Let's see if I'm getting a ping reply. it means we have done the good job.
So it will take time sometimes ARP because ARP is learning the MAC addresses and all. So don't worry for
the but if I'm not able to ping then I have
to check did I assign the IP in this PC?
No. See this is what we call troubleshooting. So sometimes we do not give IP to the computer and all and we
try to ping. So now let's ping
yes I'm able to pay. So means from router A to router B to router C we got
three locations live today. Okay locations connect it could be Di
Mumbai and Chennai. Okay. So this is the best lab for static routing as of now. Okay. Because even if
you go and check on Google and I would definitely recommend you to explore if
you have time. So static routing practical CCNA like this. Okay. And if
you try to check uh websites.
Okay. So I'm going to open three four links. So I'm just showing you that how
big labs are they. So you can see this is like static.
Yeah. But here we do not have LAN networks. Okay. So this is like three routers with serial cables and all.
Okay. So another like again we have one router only I think in this is we got
two routers then we got uh yeah this is good practical you can try this one also guys
okay to packet tracer lab when you click here you automatically downloaded a
packet tracer file okay so when you open this okay so so I have to save this basically
uh so I would say this lab what we did did here. So I would say static routing
advance. Okay save but if you try to open this lab
okay I think uh I have to go to packet tracer.
Okay we can open from here.
Yeah. So this is the lab. This is the lab we got from that internet. Okay. So
sometimes these labs are also helpful. Okay. So
there is no IP mentioned because
okay there is no IP. I'm not able to understand this network. Okay. So but
yes here the IPS are given 10 40 50 20 30 and you can see we added a static
routing okay so all these commands are added like this okay that we are getting we
are adding these roots and this is like we are adding primary and backup like two two routes also we can add
okay try to check this also
Okay. So you can assign this lab. You can do this practical. This is like you can assign 10 network 20 here 30 here 40
here. Then on all the routers you have to check show IP route connected and the missing route. See when I teach you this
lab it is like previously the lab looks easy because now you know that
lab okay so that's why you are able to understand now but whenever you see any
different lab from internet and all don't get confused okay so because the
more practice you do the more engineer the better engineer you will become
because if I teach you and if you do all that stuff what I'm teaching you will be
a definitely good engineer but if you do it yourself up explore if you explore
yourself you do little stuff from your side that you will become better more
better engineer also okay so this is like configure static routing so again
there is no practical layer but it is like how syntax but ISSO website. Okay.
So these are the things uh I can see lot of of lot of students
are not as active on the ask portal and don't ask class is canceled today here
this is not a session for asking the class or not okay so whenever uh you get
any problem any trouble I've already mentioned go to our website okay contact
us there is a support team button okay or sometimes if class get delay Okay. Uh
uh so just wait for uh 10 15 minutes we will update you in the WhatsApp group.
So last uh in the yesterday's session like I informed my team but I don't know
they how they miss to inform you all. Okay. But
okay. So this is a place where you can check any static routing concept.
Okay. So you can see lot of things static routing with three routers with three switches to lab. Okay. So two he's
trying to Okay. So actually he's doing some mistake. So he's saying this is the
error. So what is the error? Because sometimes what happens uh people get wrong
interface which router configure some routers they students
they configure wrong routers and that's why they are not able to give IP addresses.
Okay. So you added the wrong model. I think he
asked me on WhatsApp also that's why this query is not solved.
Okay. So static routing uh
so you can see static routing general discussion configuration when is simple or complex in big network.
So NIH is saying configuring and maintaining static roots can become much more complex and time consuming in large
network with complex topology and many subnets in such networks it may not be practical to manually configure and
maintain sustain uh the static routes means but basically he's saying he's
also my both are my students from previous batches so they're discussing this is what I'm trying to say when you
discuss you learn more Okay. So that's the thing. So please be active. Whatever
questions you have, you should be active here also. So now Reanir is asking this is the
first practical. I'm able to ping both sides. Could someone help me where I'm making mistakes?
So when you are able to ping when I ping my network broadcast IP.
Okay. Okay.
Okay, maybe he's typing the wrong broadcast IP. So, Rahul has asked me which IP you are pinging. So, are you
pinging this IP? And Ranir got the solution?
Why ISPs are keeping DNS server before firewall?
So DNS is basically is used for
public and firewall is added in your network to
protect your internal network. Okay. So I'll give him a extensive reply
also but I hope you got the point how to ask questions and all I'm showing you. Okay.
Okay. And whenever you ask questions make sure you add a category instead of general try to add networking here. It
would be easy for us. Okay. So that's the thing. uh we have
added static routing practical and I think uh default routing we cannot start right
now uh the default routing is basically when you connect with ISP okay so
tomorrow what I'll be going so yes tomorrow we will have a class uh because uh we have
taken the Monday off okay so I'm compensating on Wednesday so that we do
not uh stretch fetch the batch for very long time. Okay. So, uh so in yes next class
I'll be adding one ISP router. Okay. So just hold on when
wireshark during class sham see wireshark is something when you know the concept my main goal is to teach you the
concept. So wireshark is a packet sniffing tool. Okay, packet sniffing
like when you know the topic you can sniff the packet automatically in your system also. Okay, so I would recommend
just hold on for some practicals but if you have some pract uh like if you
remember like I have told you like how you can download GNS3 and all so you can
try to do the same lab on GNS3 and then you can sniff the wireshark packet also.
It's better you check does the router has stateful inspection
capability which remembers forward path and was noil the router do not have this
feature only firewall has router
okay so this is the GNS3 uh like last time I have told you like
little please check the last uh uh in the second or third class. Okay. So
you can do practical here also and please watch the video again. I think I have also mentioned how you can add a
router. So now you can see we added like two routers here. You can do the same
stuff. You can add a switch Ethernet switch.
You can add a computer VPCs.
Okay. So, so GNS3 will take much
resources little more RAM like more than packet tracer and this is the cable. You
can see the we do not have gig ports here but okay we will be able to let's do
this lab on GNS3 also and again GNS3 is not mandatory for you to install this is
like extra thing I'm teaching you okay that stat this practical we have already
done but I'm just teaching you on genus3 also so that because one of the student
asking can we sniff packets so I'm just showing you yes you can sniff
the packets packet when you use GNS3 because in packet
tracer we can check but wireshark you cannot use with packet tracer for
wireshark if you want to use wireshark you have to use uh this uh GNS3
okay so let's do a small practical here okay but in every practical it is
difficult for me to teach everything on packet tracer then GNS3. So it is like you guys have to check something from
your side also because my goal is to teach you the topic and explain it very well. So are tell me that thing I'm
doing it correctly or not.
Abhishek you will get previous batch not previous batch recording previous batch
and this batch all content from uh learn portal. Okay so I think your videos are
on the learn portal right guys? So your videos are on this website
or on other website because we have multiple websites. Some students have my
portal. Okay. So if you have uh all your videos on the learn portal, please check
from the team. If you do not got it, okay, so go to the learn portal login
and all. And I think in the learn portal if you have videos, you can download the mobile apps also. Okay. So play store
say. Okay. So you can download the videos and watch uh without internet I think b with
very basic internet also. So this feature you get in this portal because
if you are from my you are my old student and if your videos are on this portal which is my.nwigs
this my portal do not have Android app. Okay. So that's why for the next few
batches we are moving to our learn portal. So if you guys are on learn portal so
so it's better
okay so okay so let's do the GNS3 stuff yes
Sachin I can see your this message not maybe previous message maybe I missed how to get GNS3 for practical suchin
please go and check second third video
Okay. So please go and check second or third video. I have already covered this
how to get GNS3 and all. Okay. So let's do a small practical 192
168.1.1. Uh this PC I'm assigning Notepad 192 1681.2.
Uh this side let me take okay this is 2.1
this is 2.2 to this is like 200.1.1
v all your videos on the learn portal bro I think you guys do not check your uh emails properly
uh my team has already shared all the details to your email id and if you have not got it go to our website
learn.nwkings.com nwkings.com. Okay, make sure you have the sign up
here. If you do not have created your account here, please sign up and once you sign up, just go to contact us,
contact support team from this button. It will redirect you to the WhatsApp and
just message them. I'm not able to watch my videos. They will help you. Okay,
if you get any problem regarding labs and all. Okay. So now you can see click on the start button. Okay. So it will
ask do you want to start all devices? Yes. Yes. All my lights are green here
like packet tracer. Okay. So now double click on the router.
Okay. So you can see my router one is getting loaded and just so I think in
Windows it will open the putty putty app. Okay. Okay. So now you can see
router one and I cannot see the port labels. I think port labels button. If
you click here the port ports are visible. Okay. Very good. So the router
one I will not add any notepad now.
So configure t host name. Oh sorry host name. Uh yeah R1 is okay. interface F01.
F01 IP address 192 1681.1
yeah
okay so 192 16.125525525.0
0 okay and after that no shutdown interface fa0000
IP address 200.1.1
okay so I'm doing it very fast because you know how to give IP addresses okay
so now uh go to router 2
configure term terminal.
Okay. So interface FA00
interface FA01 IP address same like packet tracer
no shutdown okay and uh we have given the IP on router let's go to this PC PC. So these
are Linux based PC. So you just have to say again uh in the PC
uh PC command. So we have to say just IP 192 1681.2/24
24 means 3 * 255. 255 255 255 88
is called 24 because block 3 * 25 means one block is 8 bit 8 + 8 + 8 24 class C
is called 24 class B is called /16 and class A is called /8 this is called
slash value or this is also called C okay technical word is called slash uh C
but we call slash value slash value also represent network bits. Subnet mask also
represent network bits because the 255 1 255 means class A / 8 means also class
A. Class B means 2 * 255 0 0. It means 8 + 8 16 and C means 255 255 255 0 means 3
* 255 mean 3 into 8 is 24 you know and then gave the gateway
IP then / value and after write type gateway that's it and computer will
automatically just say show and it will show you okay this IP we have given here
okay so PC1 is ready let's go to PC2 2
and the IP is one. Sorry, I'm trying to type.
So some this is PC. This is a Linux. This is not a router. 192 168
2.1 2.2 2/24 gateways 2.1.
Okay. So PC1 if PC1 try to ping the another PC. Okay. Let me type PC1 on the
left side. Move and PC2 on the right side. Okay. If I try to ping from PC1 to
PC2, it will not happen because my router do not have
you can see destination host unreachable. We are getting destination host unreachable message. Okay. So even
if you want to capture wireshark, you can go to any link. Okay. Let me capture this link. Start capture.
Okay. Okay. So now automatically wireshark
will open. Okay. And if I try to ping from the PC1 again.
Okay. Sometimes PC gets stopped.
Okay. There is some problem. Uh I'm not sure
what is the problem but
I have to stop. Sometimes they get stuck and I have to on it back.
I think now it will fall. Yeah. PC1 is ready. Uh again and show
IPS are gone. I have to configure again. 1.24 to 24 g
space I think some button you do not have to press okay so now wireshark is
sniffing and if I try to ping the another computer
okay if I try to ping you can see destination host unreachable and the same thing in the wireshark also you can
see right so now when I try to open this packet you can See this is unreachable
message. It works on ICMP. They go. So this is the MAC address.
This is source MAC destination MAC. This is your IP. Okay. Packet is going from
uh 192 1.1 to 1. Okay. So this packet is between computer
and the router. Okay. because I'm getting destination host unreachable message from my 1.1 computer because my
computer is not able to forward the uh sorry router is not able to forward that
traffic to router 2 because router two is saying that I don't have the route and this packet
uh and how we are getting to how we are able to get because this unreachable
message is telling me okay so the unreachable message is saying host unreachable this is the code we are
getting this is what router is telling the computer okay this code one means
host unreachable and this is the same thing you are getting in the PC you can
see here code one Linux okay type code one it means unreachable
okay so it means there is my router do not know anything okay so lot of other
packets are also captured so once your work is done you can stop wireshock
and you can just click on that again stop capture
so I'm not able to ping because I don't have the root so I have to add a route
so to add the route right so I go to my router one and add the missing
destination so which network I don't have in router one show ip route so you
can see uh I don't have 192 162.0. So I say IP route 192 1682.0
subnet mask. Okay. And then you say 200.1.1.2. That's it. Because router one opposite
is 200.1.1.2. So you added from the one side. And now
let's try again. We go to the PC1. Okay. This time again let's try to
capture again.
Okay. So again and let's try to go to the PC again and pin. Yeah.
If I press the parona, it gets uh
let me reload.
IP 192 168.2.
Okay. Okay. So now one side I have added router one I have added as a static route. And if I try to ping that uh
second computer which is on another network 2.2. So now this time we are not getting
unreachable message. We are getting requested timeout. It means my packet
will be forwarded to router one. If you see wireshark so you can see I'm getting
this message no response found. This is echo request.
So who is saying 1.2 to2.2 source and destination. But who is
giving me this no response seen? No response. No response. No response
seen on ICMP request means you are trying to forward that request.
You are trying to forward this request to 2.2.
But no response. No response. You can see these messages. There is no response because you
forwarded the traffic. But there is no reply from the other side.
Okay. So you can see this is not unreachable message. It means you forwarded the packet to router two.
Router two forwarded the packet to this PC2. But when PC2 is coming back, router
2 is not replying. So it means one side traffic is done the second router have
to be has to be uh what we call like this router two should have the router
one this network because when you go
so when you go from this IP.2 2 you're going to this router to this machine
from 1.2 IP right this is how you're going but when the packet comes back you
you are telling the router I want to go back to 1.2 two. Okay, because in router
one I already told this network in router one we added this network. So
router two also router two should also be updated with router one.
Right? So go to router 2. We go to IP route 192 168 1.0 0ent
mask and then opposite side IP 200.1.1.
So now this is what we call full practical because on both the sides we added static route and now we go to
BC1 and now let's try to ping 2.2.
You can see I'm able to ping. Okay. And even if you go to the wireshark, so you
can see ping request. Earlier you was only sending the request but there was
no reply. But this time because you have the reverse path this time you're getting the ping replies also. So
request ping request is a different packet. Ping reply is a
different practical packet. Okay. So in this lab
if you see practically we have not learned much because the same thing we did did the same thing on packet tracer
but the only good thing you can check the packets what is going inside and all but once you have very good knowledge
about the packets because if you start learning right now inside packet what is going on then you will not be able to
understand the concept and the theory about CCNA static routing default
routing OPF PFB BGP. Okay. So, packet analysis people do when they have one
level. Okay. So, if you are obviously it's like you are in school, you are
trying to learn the PhD books. Okay. So, packet analysis is like PhD of
networking. Are you getting my point?
Ph.D.
Okay guys, I'm done.
No energy now. 2 hours continually speaking.
Okay, I'm audible.
Yes. Yes sir.
Yes sir. Sir, can I access or SSH from
SS any access
and SSH? Yes, you can do from any desk and uh configure or network
configuration what configuration
network depends it depends on your company
network if they have given you permission you can definitely do it.
Okay sir. Hello sir. Hello. Hello.
WhatsApp please. Not
class. Uh just hold on. Let me create the notes for today.
So I'm just trying to check where I have saved. Just I'm first class from the first class
till now. Yeah. Yeah. Don't worry. Yeah. I also joined from the fourth or fifth
actually. Okay. Okay. Don't worry. First was miss.
So if you are fine with other trainers, we have new batches coming on. You can join from beginning
that's but if actually good and it is important for
us. Yeah. Yeah. I'll share. Don't worry. I'll share the previous notes and I uh I
don't have any problem in sharing WhatsApp
configuration is
support
on a call. No no no Raja see you can show me your
practical in the live class if you are not able to solve or the best thing you can ask on ask portal
okay you can add a screenshot you can add your packet tracer file in Google drive share the link people will check
and revert you okay this is the problem in your packet tracer file
okay this is the process but live support is like it's very difficult uh
not difficult basically that comes with another one to one trainings. If you
need anyone personal trainers that is a different concept where personal uh like
trainer is teaching you after you call that guy and support and all I hope you
understand that is like one to one personal trainings but yes um I'm
teaching in a simple way don't need a onetoone trainings because they are very costly also
okay so good to learn with me. Okay. So just whenever you get any problem you
just post on ask portal and we will revert you. Okay.
WhatsApp there is no WhatsApp group. There is
WhatsApp channel one side communication. I only share when there is a class and
when there is no class or sometimes I share notes sometimes I share few things
about job postings. uh sharing about some important messages. Okay. So, WhatsApp channel
group. Okay. We'll share. Yeah, I'll share that link with you. Uh
okay. So, that link is available on the live portal. Go to live portal. That link is still active guys or not?
Active sir. Just hold on. Let me share in the chat. Those who joined recently please join
that WhatsApp link I'm sharing okay I think yeah this is active so let me
share in the chat and that same link you can get from the live portal scroll
I think when you scroll you will be able to see that link okay so go to that live
portal you can see in the in this section if you scroll down there is
WhatsApp group link Can you see that? Okay.
And also all my notes I have added here in the craft.
So craft this is the note file and that link also I'm sharing in the chat. Keep
it handy and whenever you miss that link you can always go to live portal and
just search here. You will see all the links whatever we share. Okay. So in the resources in the links.
Okay. Okay. So let me add notes. Okay. So click on the resources.
So go to your resources and all. You can see resources and there you see the notes link and there is a CC book here.
Okay. And session recordings are not here because this is our live portal.
The videos are on different website that is learn.nwinks.com.
Okay. Videos. Okay. live classes are on the live portal. So in the when you open your
channel when you open your batch so there is resources there you see the notes link every time and there is some
CCA PDF book also okay so I think you can download also some from where
but I think you will be able to read it I'll share the Google drive link if you
can't Hello sir
Yeah. Tell me sir. Uh
Okay. So when you able to learn the practicals and all what happens when the
packet hits the router first time, right? This is what your question is. Yes sir. So basically router first check
the packet is coming from my network or not because if packet is coming from my
network then router will accept and then check what is the destination then it will check the routing table and then
okay give the direction okay this is uh how you can forward the packet to this this IP address basically
routing table.
Okay.
But still uh that comes We'll see.
Okay. So that is like router. Uh yeah. So Rafi is asking is there any packet
flow where they will understand that which configurations they have to do first. Okay. Don't worry. So and guys
try to ask in English because there are few guys those who do not understand Hindi. So just uh uh we respect our
language definitely but if anybody is not able to understand right. So I hope
you understand what I'm trying to say. And English is like Yeah. Yeah. So we are using plain simple
English. So it's better for you to ask in English so that some guys will not be
able to uh miss anything. Okay. Uh so
definitely I'll check and keep reminding me this but let give me at least one two
months then we can discuss that part. Till that time I do not cover that topic.
So once I cover that no sir excuse me sir hello sir
just hold on let me cover that question first so till let's cover the topic till
that and then we can discuss about that that type of packet flow okay what you are asking
okay and second question is uh during the class like uh we have uh a lot of
questions regarding the classes and before whatever we have seen in the job
and we have not found the solution of that. Mhm. So how like how we can uh ask uh these
questions and all like during the class? See I'm here to teach you CCNA CCNP.
Okay. So my first goal is to help you to learn the concepts of the topics what we
have in CCNA CC&P right and I will also add my allh all the things what I have
gained what I have experienced in those 10 12 years. But obviously whenever you
have any doubt you cannot ask me any random question between the class because I'm covering the topic which is
related to your content. Right? So right now if I'm teaching static routing you can ask static routing question in the
chat. Okay. And if you have any random question and if I'm teaching a topic
which is not relevant to your question then it is it's better you go to ask portal what we created. Okay.
question mark ask go to ask portal and ask questions here
okay go to new topic ask whatever questions you have okay regarding the packet flow regarding uh what question
you asked me right now you can ask here and you will be getting a reply very soon here okay but if you want me to
cover in the live so I told you like let's wait till the net topic and then we are going to discuss that Okay.
Okay. Uh and one one question is from the class uh like uh Mhm.
if there is a mention IP is 192 168.1.1 32 and one IP is 192 168.124.
So is there is a difference in them? One IP is 192 168 xx/24
one with 32. Yes sir. H So what is the difference?
So uh actually sir many of the time my senior told me you should allow 32
plus/24 I did a so 32 is single host IP basically. Okay.
So suppose if I'm doing a practical if I'm adding uh like if I only want to
ping this computer not all the all the computers I go to this router and I add
the IP address of I like if I want to add a static route for this PC
suppose this is 192 161.2 so I will say 192 161.2 two.
Okay. And then I say all 255. So what will happen with this static route? Only
this computer will be able to we will be able to ping this computer only not all
computers. Okay. So this is /32. So which means when you only want to
communicate for one single computer/32 is used. So 192 168.2/32 2/32 and 192 168.24
is is it different by default if we are not we are not allowing the uh uh
network uh network IP right? Mhm. So you are allowing.232
the another is 168 1.24 2/24
they they both are looking same I think. No no 1.132
right? Huh? Or those are two/
No, no, no. They both are same IP.124.
Okay. So, so IPs what you are doing with these two
IPs? So
if you're making the static route for the same so if there is difference like if we mention the location
yes yes this means only this computer when I say /32 which means all 25 only
this computer is called 32 but 1.124 means all machines in my network which
belong belongs to this network right 1.0
192 16.1.1.2 13.4 for all these I'm using /24
so in the class sir as you have explained like if you want to ping the whole submit then you have to mention at
the static route with the network ID. Yeah sir. H. So all these all these
network we added today all these are for all the networks. But if you only want to ping one single IP just enter the
whole IP. Okay. Like just enter the whole IP like this. Okay. With all 255.
Okay. So then what will happen? Only this machine for that network will ping. But if you added this also and also if
you added 1.0 0 with the 255250 then
like all IPs will work. Okay. So at the 1.1 1.1
if you put only 1.1 only this computer will able to you can reach only this IP
not 1.2 not 1.3 not 1.4 4
192 168.1 255 255 255 0
uh then all 19.23 2.3 all IPs you can reach but you cannot assign this IP it
will give you error because here you have typing one now you cannot assign this static route
okay I'll see sir uh you cannot assign bro that's what I'm trying to say you go to router and if
you try to say 1.2 IP here and if you put a this subet mask okay like this so
you can see inconsistent address and mask because this is 1.2 two this is the
computer IP not the network ID because if you put network ID you have to put 0
0 here you can see in class C and but if you put the whole IP you have to put all
255 then only it will take
okay any other question guys
learn Quality low.
Go to settings and change to high.
Next video in mobile or in computer
and share the screenshot with support team. We'll see what we can do. Okay. Yes sir. Okay.
How to access the lab? check with support team there is a website there
you can access the lab but I have not started that labs so just wait for a few
days and then we'll do good evening uh good
DCP server next.

