ript


So the Okay. So now you can see here we have another C machine machine 192
162.3. So again shortcut ncpa.cpl CPL. Okay.
And uh go to properties and uh 192
1682.3. Okay. And 192 168
2.1 and DNS is 8888. Okay. So that's okay guys. Uh we have
given that and let's try to ping that Linux machine because I'm on 2.3.
Obviously we are in the same LAN network and this switch is like already running okay because this is like uh what we
call u the lab already the switches are already on you can say okay we cannot
open the switches because uh we focus on the router and the devices okay so this
is like a bridge uh kind of a device okay in the lab okay so do not focus on
the switch right now just focus on the router and the devices so now you see I have 2.3 And we can verify with the IP
config. So 2.3 is already there. We have given the IP2.2 to Linux machine. So do you
think 2.2 can ping 2.3 or 2.3 can ping 2.2? Obviously yes because they are in
the LAN network. So you can see we can ping the Linux machine guys. We are
pinging we are able to ping our Linux machine right. So this is how we can see and if
we check ARP ARP so if you see 192 1682.2
has a MAC address 005206 remember 50206.
So let's check the Linux machine has same address. Yes. Can you see the hardware MAC address 00520
060 and this is the same we are learning in the ARP table. Okay. And you can see
we are able to ping that machine also. That's why because when you start ping
so before a ping the ARP will go and get the MAC address of that device. Okay. To
be ping if you do not have the MAC address you you hold a ping packet and
send ARP get the MAC address then you send the ping packet.
Okay. That's uh the logic. So now if you see
2.2
today I faced a problem in my office network in a manageable switch. Sumit I'll take your question later on.
Okay. So now you see uh 2.4 four machine also if this is just a extra machine if
you want to use okay but maybe in my practical I'm going to use that use that okay so I'll be using
this 24
192 168 2.4 and this is another third machine of
this LAN network. Okay machine LAN network key this is the
third machine and if we try to ping the Linux machine so we can see 2.2 we are
able to ping that 2.2 two machine also. So it means all three machines are ready and there is a Windows server. So we
will create a rule but let's configure the router first. Okay. The router configure
yeah computer names also no we cannot use the computer names in ACL SEP. So we
have to give that IP address of that machines. Okay. ACL is a layer three security. So you have to use IP
addresses. But if you use any firewall maybe then maybe you can do that. Okay.
But as of now it's ACL. So related to the router switches
concept. Okay. See firewall is a next level thing. Obviously if you have a
firewall in the market you will not use ACL in the routers. But in companies we
can still use this ACL as a filteration like route manipulation route filtering.
ACL real world use. Okay. So we will discuss do we use ACL
in the real world or not. Okay. So I'll let's understand the concept first and then I'll tell you.
So now let's configure the routers here. Okay. And uh I'll be going and configure
in the notepad. So I'll go with the text editor. Okay. So let's increase the
font. Okay. So R1 R1 command. Let's go
to R1. Uh
okay. So enable configure terminal
and after that host name R1 and interface FA01 IP address 192 1681.1
okay no shutdown
and interface FA00 IP address 192 1683.1
one no shutdown. Okay. So any I'm sure R1
configuration is super easy. Just you give IP address to these two interfaces.
Right? So you have just given the IP address to these two interfaces because I'm doing configuration on R1 to F003.1
and 1.1 I'm given here. You can see 3.1 and 1.1.
Okay. So after that uh like once you give the IP address uh
we have to run any routing protocol. But if you don't know any routing protocol right now uh we will uh configure static
routing today. Okay. So let's configure R2. So R2 be configure. I copy paste R1
configuration just change the router name to R2 okay because I copy paste
this three commands three set of commands host name R2 and there is FA000
where I have to give 3.2 so this IP is 3.2 2 on this router and f01 is 2.1 very
simple it simple configuration R2 R2
so we have given this 2.1 on FA01 and 3.2 two IP we have given on the FA00
because all the router IP inter all the router interfaces should be in different
network. Okay, remember this line all the router interfaces should be in different network because router is
used to connect different networks because router is a
device to connect different networks. router if you ask me why why router has a
different different IP on different different interfaces because that is how why router is created router is created
to connect different networks that's why when you take internet connection at your home you always use router because
internet is a different network your computer your home is a different network so your home connect with
internet with the help of router Okay. So this is the basic config and uh copy
and if I open that R1 this is the R1 device guys. I'll take the console and
this is R1 R2. So R1 R2.
Okay. I just bring those uh tabs Chrome tabs.
Okay. Okay. So the best part.
Okay. So R1 R2 you can see. Okay. So this is the R1 router. So let's
configure the same IP address what I have given in the nodes. Enable configure terminal host name
R1 interface FA01 IP address 192 1681.1
subnet mass. See where here we are giving subnet mask not wild card mask because this is how the syntax of Cisco
router fa00 IP address 192 1683.1
so IP the same what I have written in the notepad because I'll be sharing
these notes with you so that you can do practical by looking at the commands also okay but I recommend you to try
without commands one time and see your knowledge okay we have given the R1
configuration ation and when we configure anything we can do right also okay to save the configuration let's go
to router 2 now enable config t host name R2
interface F A 0 IP address 192 1683.2 two
no shutdown interface FA01 IP address 192 sorry if I'm little fast
because I have already given you the commands to it to to speed it's advanced batch so
but still I have written all the commands here okay so I'm I just given the IP addresses okay and then I do a
write command extra IP we have given on all the IP
addresses. But do you think do you think this window machine can ping the Linux
machine? Window 1.2 computer can ping 2.2.
Yes. No. Right. Type in the chat. Do you think the Linux user can ping the
server? No. Because if you go to the Linux machine and try to ping the first
machine ping 192 1681.2. Okay. Uh
so you can see I'm not able to get the packet. I'm not able to uh generate that traffic. And if this issue comes in your
real network also how you will troubleshoot because troubleshooting is also important. So when you go to this
Linux machine you can see I'm not able to get the ping but do you want to see
the packet is going to the router or not? Okay. So we will go to router two and we will run a command here. Okay. So
like let's say debug ipmp. So this is a command are you getting the packets or not? R2. Yeah. They go when
you write a command debug ipmp because Linux machine is pinging right trying to
ping. It's not pinging but he's trying to ping but who will forward Linux pack
Linux machine packet to 1 1.2 because the traffic will go from Linux machine
to the switch. switch will pass to router then router two will pass to router one and then router one will pass
to windows and windows machine will give you reply and the packet will come from
the same path because you have only one way so this is how your traffic will come back but right now if you see where
is my first packet is going on the router okay so if you see debug command
when I type debug okay so there A lot of messages we are getting in the router.
Okay. So, uh in the production network do not run debug commands without
permission. Okay. So, and you can stop any of all of them by undebug all. Okay.
So, debug command is to run the command debug IPCMP because ping work on ICMP.
Okay. And undebug all command is to disable. Okay. Undebug all is to disable. But when I debug now I get the
capture. This is like packet capture or okay this is like packet capture. Now I
can see that ICMP 1.2 because I want to go from Linux machine to 1.2 and what my
router is saying destination 1.2 host unreachable
host unreachable and this message we sent to Linux machine. So Linux machine
got the unreachable message. You can see somehow yeah it's uh uh unreachable
messages it's not showing. I don't know why but uh you can see in the router you can see we are not able to go to 1.2
host unreachable host unreachable everywhere because in the routing table if you see show ip route do we have 1.2
in the routing table network not in the table even the network ID of 1.2 is 1.0.
So this is not in the table. This is what we call there is no routing
routing. There are there are no routes. So now tell me router two should know
about this network. Right? Router 2 do not have 1.0 information. So what we
will be going to do? We will be adding a static route. So we will say configure terminal IP route. I want to know about
1.0 the subnet mask of that network and my next top IP. So who is giving this IP?
How to how router two will reach router two? How router two will go to server?
Router two will take the help of router one. Router one is the neighbor router.
And this is what we call next hop. The neighbor IP address is called nexttop.
And this router will help me to go to the server. So that's why I say I want
to go to this network 1.0. This is the subnet mask. And who
will help me? That help route or neighbor router is your next stop. 3.1
because a traffic is going in the left side. That's why you put 3.1. If you have any uh like internet or something
maybe at that time you put a default route towards internet because internet
at the this side and your LAN side or maybe different branch office is on the left side.
Okay. So now you consider we have given the IP route. Okay. So let's see this
time can we able to ping? Let's see try one more time and 1.2. Okay. Again there
is no ping reply. Okay, we are not getting pings okay ICMP packets but
let's try to debug the command again here because we have given let's see what is the issue now we will say again
debug IP ICMP and this time
you can see again we are getting
debug ICMP host unreachable able to 2.3 2.3 host
unreachable to 2.3 okay 1.2 ping
but why we are getting this message 2 3 2 okay 2.32.4
because it's like we are trying to go but the packet is not able to forward the packet to 1.0 zero side. Okay, let's
try to check more. Okay, you can see 2.3. So, we are not
getting the I think we have added the root. Let's try to debug R instead of
R2. Let's debug R1. Okay, because R2 already we added the network, right? We
have already conveyed router two. Okay, to stop the packets remember undebug all. Okay, undebug all.
Okay, and remember that static route we have added here IP route 1.0. So we have already added if you check the routing
table commands router will not deny. So you can see I so when I say I want to
know do we have 1.0. So you can see router is saying yes I have the entry in my routing table with a static route
with the ad value one and this is the next stop 3.1.
So you can verify in the routing table also. So we have the root right
we have a static route. So whenever any packet will come for 1.0
I will forward to 3.1. It means whenever Linux machine say I want to go to 1.2
two. So the packet of Linux machine will be transferred to R2 and R2 will
transfer to 3.1. Yes. And who is 3.1? This R1. So let's go in R1 and write the
same command debug ip. So let's see R1 is getting the ping packet or not. Oh yes, they go.
Are we getting? Yes, R1 is receiving the packets. R1 is receiving the packets and saying
destination 2.2 host unreachable 1.2 it means destination 2.2 is not
reachable. So my 1.2 two. So what is happening if
you understand that router one is not able to router two is forwarding to R1
and R1 already know where is server R1 is also sending to 1.2 but when the
packet comes back 1.2 say I want to go back to where 2.2 and router 2 is saying
I don't know where is 2.2 2. So it means you have to add a reverse route. You can see 2.2 is unreachable. 2.2 is
unreachable because I don't have 2.0 network here.
So I have to say con uh undebug all. Okay. Undebug all very fast you have to
do it because it will interrupt. So now you say IP route I want to go back to Linux machine. So you can see R1 is
saying R1 is saying I don't have a Linux IP. So it means you have to add the static route reverse traffic also IP
route. I want to go to where 192 162
0. So this is why we are adding full network because I want to ping all the
machines. I want to ping all the machine. But if you only want to ping 2.2 just enter the 2.2 as a static
route. But at that point you have to add all 255. So this static route will only
ping 2.2 not 2.3. Are you getting my point? So this is what we call host static route to is
static route host static route. Okay. Because you are only adding the computer
IP but all 255 because it's called host static route. Okay. So normally it is
not required because I want to give to all network.
Okay. And what is my neighbor IP? Router has a neighbor IP 3.2. So your neighbor
next hop is called a neighbor IP. So I will write 192 163.2.
Very good. So now let's try are we getting the ping reply. Now
yes guys we we got the pings now. Ping we got the ping and there is no problem.
My network is stable. Okay. So my network is stable. And if you want the
reverse ping okay you can go to this window machine
and ping 2.22.32.4 okay so we are
uh yeah so let's ping uh 2 do
ping 2.2 2. Yes, we are able to ping the first machine Linux machine. 2.3 the
another Windows machine of my network. Let's ping 2.4.
So all we see all three machines are able to ping. So do you think we we will
have MAC address of all three
to ARP? Do you think ARP will have entry on on this route on this computer on
this server? So guys you I don't know why you guys
are saying yes. I'm asking do you think we will have the Linux Windows these
three machines MAC address in this server in machine MAC address server do you
think all three MAC addresses will be available in this machine now so people are saying no yes because
it's ARP work on LAN network so this is not my LAN network all three in
different network if you ping from this machine to this machine then we will store each other
MAC address because we all three part of one family but this is different family
now so we will not share my personal MAC address with these machines are you getting so do you have internet like
Google MAC address in your laptop laptop Google MAC address
Google is also a different network then why don't so then why you are saying no
Yes, sorry. So, you can see now if I check ARP table, I only have my machine
addresses. There are no different because this is the main device who is
helping me to go to the device. That's my router IP because I have the gateway
MAC address in my ARP table. If you want to communicate with the different
networks, you should have your gateway in the IP address settings and also you
should have a gateway MAC address learning in the ARP table. So you can
see ARP - A. So I don't I have the MAC address but in case some problem happens
or maybe router is down and you feel like you are not able to access internet and you feel you also check okay I have
already given the gateway what is the issue then at least ping your gateway okay ping your gateway check the ARP
table are you able to learn the MAC address of your routers or not this is how you can check VAN connection also if
ISP is down if ISP you feel like internet is not working. Go to your van
router and check the ARP of ISP router.
Okay, we can discuss those things also later on. But uh right now
uh this is how the basic practical is working fine. And let's start the ACL.
Okay. And before that I would recommend you all to take a break because practical
right till now everybody knows how to configure two routers computers I've not
done anything new but now the topic will start let's go for 5 minutes okay come
by 11
they
Okay, go and come back in uh 5 minutes.
Okay. Uh can you brief about F5 load balancer
course at networking? You take the class or uh I do not take that class. Rama F5
is taken by someone who is working on F5 from couple of from the last years.
Okay. So let me start again.
Okay. So till now what we have done like uh both the machines uh like both the
LAN networks they are able to ping. So but today we are going to use the standard ACL. Okay. So this is the
objective this is the rule suppose.
So standard ACL like we are going to block 2.2 2.2 machine to not access 1.2 and 2.4
will be able to ping uh uh 2.4 could be block we will block 2.4 we will block
2.2 2 but we will not block 2.3. Are you getting the concept guys? So
what we have to do the first we have to block the
the Linux machine we have to block the Windows 4 machine but we have to give
the permission to Windows 3 to access the Windows server this server 1.2
rule follow that Linux machine should be blocked, Windows 4 machine will be
blocked and 2.3 machine will be able to ping. Okay, so before I do ACL, I want
to show you that all three machines can go to Windows server. Okay, so let's try with Linux machine. So you can see 1.2
ping, we are able to ping 1.2, right? Let's go to 2.3 machine. Let's ping 1.2.
Yes, 1.2. We are able to ping 1.2 also. Let's go to Windows 4 machine. This
machine also we can ping 1.2. Yes, all three machines can go to the server. But
I want to block Linux and Windows 4. Means uh uh remember the IP
192 168 2.2 and 2.4. We have to block
the machine block. We have to block Linux machine. We have to block the Windows 4 machine. Okay. To ping the
1.2. Okay. Ping or whatever. Okay. Let's because standard ACL will block
everything. In standard ACL you cannot say sir I want to access website but I
want to block uh FTP or I want to block ping. Everything will be blocked because
it's standard. So in standard ASL we do not add port numbers. So whatever you
whenever you block any computer to computer to server then all services
will be blocked services block all the services will be
blocked okay so right now remember one thing whenever you block
okay please check the source IP 2.2 2.4 42.3 so we will apply the standard ACL near
the source like on R2 okay so one more thing
okay so when the packet is coming from this side okay so the FA01 will be my
inbound interface this this is what we call inbound because traffic is coming
inside from the Linux machine to this router and when the traffic will go from
this side. This port will be my what? Port outbound. Outbound. Okay. And when
the traffic goes in this router, this port will be what? This for this router,
this port will be inbound. And when the traffic come from outside
this interface, this this interface is your outbound. So
inbound and outbound depends from where the traffic is coming. the traffic.
Okay. So if traffic is coming from the Linux machine this port is inbound and
this is outbound because when the traffic come inside my router when the
traffic entering entering into my router that's inbound and when it's going
outside that's outbound and when the second router see on FA00 that is
inbound and when the traffic process by router and forward to FA01 that is
outbound. Now in another case if I forward traffic
from windows server in this situation this is not outbound this port will
become inbound but as of now we will not check this because traffic is coming from you can
see traffic is coming from the right to left. So we will focus on right to left right now. Okay. Uh so as a beginner I
would not confuse you that how windows server work but remember traffic if
traffic will go from this side then this will be inbound this will be outbound this will be inbound this will be
outbound traffic because
inbound outbound inbound outbound when the traffic goes back this will be inbound this will be outbound this will
be inbound this will be outbound okay so just be clear very simple It's like
consider this is like your home. Okay. Or this is like your office building. This is like office building. Router is
consider it's a office building. Okay. So now understand in this way whenever
you go at your office this is the entry gate. So you go inside this is your
entry gate inside and when you go outside the building this is your outside gate. So this is your in gate
because you enter from this side and this is your outside. Okay. Now consider
further there is another building. So when you coming from this side this is like where you enter again in the
building again this is your in inbound and when you come out from this building
from different this path okay if you coming out from this path you are coming
out right that's why it is called out. Now consider if anybody is coming from this direction. Okay. If anybody is
consider coming from this direction. Now you go from different way. Now this side
again it's considered a building or uh your home whatever. So now when the you
are coming from this direction yeah gate this will be your in gate. This will be
your out gate. This again if you go further this will be your in and this
will be your out. Okay. So in and out is very important for practicals because if
you apply the wrong ACL your ACL will not work.
Okay. Make sure you apply the ACL at the right interface and right direction.
Okay. So now in my case in my case
my ACL rule says okay that block 2.2 2.4 4 2.3.
So the common point is router two because all your traffic is going all three users are going from this gate.
Right? All this computer is also going from this gate. This also going from
this gate. This computer is also going from the same gate. So this interface we
can say this is my inbound interface. All traffic we are getting here. Now
consider ACL is like a security guard. Okay. So security guard is going to ask
you question. Okay. Where you want to go? Where you want to go? So now tell me where you want to apply the where you
want to place your security guard. ASEL is like security guard. So building
tell me. So you want to ask security guard. Security guard whenever people
are coming from this direction please stand here and check their ID proof right so consider the same situation so
this is again the same building now you place a security guard here
okay security guard okay so this is the security guard okay
so okay so this is the security guard man I'm the security guard
Okay. Okay. Make
YouTube channel. Okay. So, this is the security guard. Now, this is going to check all the IP because we are setting
the rule for these three machines and all three 2.2.4 2.3 they are coming from
this direction. So, we will put a security guard here. Security guard please check all machine and block 2.2.
Okay. Block what? We are going to block the 2.2. We are
going to block 2.4. But give access, give permission when somebody comes with
the ID 2.3. Okay, clear. So ACL like it's a security guard which we are going
to implement on FA01 because FA01 is my entry gate. FA01 entry gate.
We have to apply the security guard on FA01. Okay. Because if you think why we are
not applying the security guard on FA00, the problem will come.
Okay, the problem comes or if it is like a benefit also. If you apply on FA00,
what will happen? Okay, suppose you only want to block
Linux and Window machine for this server, not for internet, not for internet. But if you put a security
guard here, if you put a security guard here, what will happen? Linux machine
cannot even go to internet. Yes or no? So security guard. If we apply the
security guard here, the security will not allow this user to even go to
internet. Yes or no? Yes. That's why this is not the right place to apply the
ACL if anybody if you want to give internet access. So in that case we will
apply to FA00 because I want people to come in my building but can go to guest
or maybe cafeteria. So consider if you take the building example again this is
the building and internet is like your cafeteria okay so you want public to
anyone can go to cafeteria okay or maybe any public p whatever you call okay I
will say like u um like some cafeteria for public so these people can enter
into my building entry gate but can go to internet but can go to internet Okay.
But I do not want them to go to my secret area that is this side. I don't
want to go to my personal space. This is my maybe head office or maybe some
special data center. I don't want people to go this side. That's why I'm going to
block this side. May fa00. If I apply here, I have to say this is
my which interface outbound interface. Remember one thing if you apply this on
this interface this is in interface but people the Linux machine window 4 cannot
even go to internet okay so in my situation I will go for my f00 because I
will going to I'm going to enable the internet access also okay so that's why
on this R2 we will create ACL rule let's create a ACL rule on router two okay And
very simple. So you will write the commands access
list. Okay. Remember the number. If you remember the number standard ACL has a
number. Okay. Not this window.
Just hold on guys.
Okay.
Okay. So, I just want to show and recall. So
we were checking the notes and the standard ASL is 1 to 99 number and so 1
to 99 number is the number which we have to use. So you can use any number like 1
or 10 whatever 1 to 99 you can use any number. So I'm using the one number and
then I say access list one you I want to block
I want to block a host and the host IP address is
192 1682.2 okay I just want to block this host 2.2
after that I say I want to also block 2.4
because I want to block this window 4 machine also like 2.2 2 but I want to enable 2.3 so I will write access list
one permit permit host 2.4 four that's it guys okay
and in the last I would suggest you to give this command also access list one
permit any why this command is required because if you do not give this command
after that everything will be blocked there are no other computers but in suppose in future if any computer will
come they will be blocked also if you want any future computers you want to
block then don't give this command But if you want any future computers you
want to give permission to access the server then
per give the
uh access to the server then give the permit any because rest all except these
three IPs okay if you do not match 2.22.4 4 to here we have to say 2.3
sorry permit host 2.3 rest all machines will be permitted but if you do not give
there is a by default explicit deny there is a hidden command which we cannot see which is called explicit deny
it means deny everyone so this is all this is explicit deny by
default in all ACL so if you do not give the permit any by default it is going to
block everyone so be consider this thing. So that's why if you want
everyone to be blocked just do not give the permit command. Okay. But if you
want your future users or anyone to access internet say permit any. Okay.
So now we created ACL and let's go and create on router 2. Okay. So I go to
router two. Okay. Before that, let me show you how
I'm going to give the internet access to router 2. So this is my internet in the office and on fa 1/0.
Okay. So let's use internet later on because to focus I'll use the internet
later on. Let's focus on ACL right now. Okay. So we will create ACL access list
one block host. Okay. So we have to say first sorry
permit or deny. So we will say deny instead of block what command we will use here deny.
Okay. So deny is the command to block. Okay. So access list one deny host which
host 2.2 and after that I want to block which user 2.4
which user I want to permit access list one permit host
192 168 2.3. So we created a rule of three statement
that's called ACL. So there is a command show access list and you can see there
is a sequence number automatically applied here. Okay. But there is a problem why this 20
number. Okay. Permit command is uh okay.
Okay. I have check verify. Okay. the number system I feel like it's not correct. Let's remove ACL. How to remove
if anything happen wrong? No access list one. Simple. So let's give again access
list. First I to block 2.2 then I block 2.4
and after that I permit the remaining user permit host
2.3. Yeah, this is the Now I check again.
Okay, the rule is uh just uh doing something. I think this number should be 20. After that it should be 30. But
permit is coming here. It's okay. Uh I think it will not create an issue. But yeah, number this number
should be given. Okay, 30 deny coming. Okay, actually this is considering the
IP. Okay, I'm thinking 10 20 30 it should be 10 20 30 but it is going it is showing
you according to the IP 2.2 2.3 2.4 four like this that's why the numbering is 10
30 20 so these are sequence number like excel sheet if you have a uh what we
call uh like if you have seen the excel sheets right so every excess uh like if
I show you okay so what is this this has a number
right 10 20 so consider the 10 number is a so you say here block. So on 20 number
also you are saying block. Okay. So why there is a number 10 20 30? Because in future if you want to give a command you
can give any 30 number 60 number. Okay. In future if you want to modify if you
want to give any modification but again which ACL we are using? We are using the
numbered number and it is not editable to number edit. We cannot modify. So in
case in future if you want to modify you cannot add it. You have to create again.
You have to go and remove this and you have to create again by typing the
commands. This is a problem with the number ACL. But consider now ACL is ready. There is no problem access list.
Okay. So we can check with the uh
so if you want to run show command in the global mode so you can say do show access list. So do command l if you want
to see on the global mode you can put a do after you can write a command show like do show ip route. Okay because show
ip route will not run here. It will give you error that this is not the correct command. Okay. But if you say do show ip
route then you can check because show ip route command is a privilege level
command. So there is no need of do here. Show access list also you can check without do. But if you are on further
level like maybe you are in the global mode or be or maybe you are in the interface mode. If you are on the higher
mode you can put a do and check the command also so that you do not have to go to the privilege mode again and again. Okay. So this is the thing and
now we created a rule. So consider we have created a policy. Now we have to
apply the security guard and we will apply to FA00. But remember when you are applying to
FA00 this interface is my which interface type in the chat guys FA00 I'm apply if
we apply on FA00 this is going to be inbound or outbound.
Yes, it is going to be out out inbound FA 0
because traffic is coming from my down side to FA01 is inbound. But when the
traffic goes to router 2, router 2, FA00 m traffic, check the building again.
Okay, consider that building again. This is your building. Traffic is coming from
this direction. So this is my inbound. Okay. Now traffic is coming out from
this port. That's why it is called out. So we will apply to out because if we
apply to in these users cannot access internet access also. Okay. So that's
why I recommend everyone to make sure if you have internet on the same router
then you have to make sure you apply on the out. Okay. But if you do not have that internet then you can apply to FA01
also. Okay. But in my in this scenario I'm using FA00. I go to FA00 and say IP
access group. Okay. So here access group is the
command because this is a group of commands. Okay. So what access group you
want to apply the number is one. So you say IP access group one. And this
interface is my which interface out. So you will say out here. Very simple. So
FA00 you go to FA00 and type a command IP access group 1
because ACL has a number one and you say this is my outbound interface. But in
case if you want to apply to FA01 then in this case you will say IP access
group one in but you will not apply to both interfaces because if you apply on
both interfaces FA01 will not forward the traffic to FA00 or FA10 to inpay
security guard. If you put a security guard on the in then this traffic will
not be forwarded to internet also or it will not even go to FA00. So fa0 ACL
will not work. Okay. So one ACL you should apply at one interface only not
multiple interfaces on the same router. Okay. If it is contradictories.
So ACL we have applied the ACL and now it is
time to check the traffic. Okay, let's go to Linux machine. Earlier it was you
can see we are getting the ping and now let's try.
Okay, we are not able to ping you can see. And now let's go to the router and
again let's try to check debug command because if you get this type of problem
if some users are complaining you can check. So you can see here administrative probitted the
unreachable. So whenever you see this message administratively probed it means some ACL is applied because admin we are
the admins we have probed we have blocked this 1.2 to go to 2.2 to or
wherever wherever it is going right. So we can stop undebug all remember that
command. So we have to give undebug very fast. It will interrupt. But you can see read
lines admin probed. But again if I go to 2.3 this user is not blocked. So now he
can still access because JB 2.3 whenever 2.3 computer is coming to this device
this device is not blocking. Again we can have a ping debug ip
and Linux machine is string trying to reach. So you can stop control zed we stop the packet processing and now let's
ping this 1.2 you can see I'm getting a ping response
and if I check the router there is no problem I'm still able to go to the
device because still packets are going properly. Okay. So, but there is no admin messages
are coming. Okay. So, that's uh the logic. So, there is no admin messages
and you are able to ping the packets. You are able to go to the window machines 1.2 and 2.4 is also blocked.
So, let's say 2.4 and 2.4 is also giving the error destination
network unreachable. Linux is not giving because just maybe Linux uh work with a different way. Why
it's not showing me unreachable message? But yes, Windows machine is showing you the unreachable message. It means I
cannot go to the destination. But once I remove the ACL, how to remove? I go to
router 2 and say fa0 0 fa00 0 and the command was IP access
group one out. And just to remove just say no. And this is how you remove the ACL. I removed. And now again if you try
Linux will also ping. Yes, we again got the ping response.
Dub ping kernel again. We can check 2.4 also. You can see destination host
unreachable when the ACL was active. And now again once I remove again we are
able to ping. It means my ACL is working perfectly fine. And you can see we are
able to block the traffic. Again we can apply IP access group one out and again
if I go to the machine 2.4 again we are blocked. So ACL is blocking
the traffic by looking at ACL number. Okay. And we can check I think uh
some more commands uh debug uh
access list uh debug IP access list and uh
I think uh this is not relevant. I think we can go
with the ping and all. This is related to
so Cisco ACL debug uh command
sometime.
So we will capture the ICMP according to the traffic only I think. Uh
yeah you can see debug IP packet. Yeah got the command debug IP packet. So
which ACL number is this one. So if I want to see more detail I say debug IP
packet and after that I can put a ACL number. So debug IP packet and the number is one. Okay. And after that if
you want to see detail you can say detail also. So you can say debug IP packet one detail and if Linux machine
is pinging again earlier I was tracking the ICMP now I'm checking the full
packet. So now if I see you can see the whole messages everything is written you
can see by stopping this undebug all
and there is a small capture you can see okay that 2.3
is trying to go or maybe 1.2 two you can see admin down. I think this is the same
we are able to generate in the ICMP. Okay. So we are not getting much more information but still you can see the
same traffic. There are two commands. If you are using ICMP you can say debug IP ICMP or if you want to see the full
packet maybe you are blocking HTTP or uh any other traffic then debug IP packet
then ACL number and then detail. Okay. So I will write here there are two commands. So you can say debug ip
and the another one is debug ip packet then ACL number and then you can write
detail something. So these are used for troubleshooting purpose. Okay. So troubleshooting
commands. Okay. Troubleshooting commands.
Okay. Okay. So this is all uh we have blocked properly and uh tomorrow I'll
show you the extended ACL even I can show you right now but I just want you to just uh and try to do standard ACL
yourself one time. So tomorrow in the morning time if you get the time. So try to do this lab and this is uh like uh
also in your notes there is a packet tracer file I have also created and you can see we have
configured OPF if you don't know just configure as what we static routing and
this is the same thing. Okay and I have also added here numbered
ACL packet tracer activity. This is your homework. Try to do this lab 5.1.8. So
once you download from the notes okay so just open packet tracer. I'm just
showing you how to do this lab
configure after 01 and test the three client they can. Okay Rafi let's check the internet thing also because uh if
you are ready but let me show you the packet tracer homework first. Okay so once you open the packet tracer go to
the downloads where you have downloaded that file. Okay so you can see just open
from the packet tracer. So now you can see there is a file and
there is a activity window activity window be and these are the IP
addresses. So now you can see try to read this also okay don't go in a
hurry but you can see create a ACL using ACL number on router 2 okay and denies
access already some commands are already given for you that somehow the web server
so what is the objective here that the first statement we have to
block create ACL using number one on router two this router and deny access
to 20.0 so where is 20.0 this is the web server so 20.0 block and
remember in packet tracer there is activity file here so you block 11.0
okay for which network I want to block 11.0 11.0 Z this network should not reach the
web server. Okay. So network
we have to block the whole network. And what we will do here we will go to the
router 2. We will go to router 2 and right here I want to block 11.0 enable
config t access list number one. I think we have to use one deny. But we do not
have to type host here because we are not blocking single computer. The activity is asking me to com block the
entire network. You can see the complete network. In this situation, we have to use wild card mask. So we say I want to
use I want to block my whole network 192 16811.0.
And remember what I said subnet mask is this. Then what will be the wild card
mask? If 3255 you have to say three zeros and if you have single zero then
you have to write 255 okay because in ACL just remove the subnet mask because
we only have to use the wild card mask. So this is the class C wild card mask.
Okay, that's it. You give this wild card mask. Enter. And after that, what
network you want to permit for the IPs?
For rest of the traffic you want to permit, then you have to say access list one permit any because I only want to
block 11.0 rest people I want to permit. But in my previous class you can see in
the previous lab here we have just said deny deny permit we are not giving this
permit any command here. But if you want if you want to allow rest of the traffic
we can give here this permit any command also. This is again your choice guys.
This command will allow all other remaining user. But in this lab we are blocking this network and giving
permission to all other user because what we want that this 11.0 should not
access web server but I want these servers these machines this whole
network to go to web server. Web server is my destination. Okay
so that's why because I want to permit these users. So here in R2 we will apply
and now on which interface we will apply. Okay, if you do not see the interface
names, okay, you can check uh with the uh like CDP show CDP neighbor. Okay, now
you can see okay, router 2 is connected to switch. Router 2 is connected to
switch on which port number gig 0. This is the port here. Here you have a port
number GI 0 by 0. Okay, to you gig 0. I
check from the CDP and CDP is telling switch is connected to gig zero zero.
Okay. So now I can go to the activity again and I can see okay I have to go to and
apply to gig 0 because this 110 is coming to my router 2 and we have
multiple interfaces like serial or something like that but I want to block here. I want to put my security guard
here because if I block if I put security guard here the traffic will
come from this side also you know so it's better we apply on gig zero okay
and we go to gig zero IP access group one out that's it and
now uh what is the web server IP it is mentioned in the activity web server IP
is uh uh 20.2 254 20.254
and if I go to the PC I think IPs are already given to the machines. This is
the best thing you focus on the topic only. Okay. And ping 20.2 254. Now you
can see it is blocked. But if I remove that ACL by typing no
then I can ping this machine. Yes. Let's see.
Maybe I will be able to ping this machine. Yes, I can ping guys. Can you see that? Okay. So now you are able to
ping but once you activate the ACL you are not able to then you are not
able to proceed with the ping. You can see destination host unreachable.
Okay. After that this activity this is the example how you can block this is
also a learning how you can block you can verify with show access list that is also written. Okay. Now we have a num
numbered ACL. Okay, numbered ACL on R3. R3
where we block 10.0. Okay, on R3 I don't want to give permission to 10.0 traffic.
So this is the PC1 and this is the PC3. So you can see PC3 is 30.10. PC1 can
ping 30.10 or not? Let's say ping 192 168 30.10.
Let's see.
Yes, I'm able to ping, right? Ping. I'm able to ping 30.10. Now the the lab
asking us to block again. It is giving you example. You go to R3. You can even
copy paste that this is how you this is just for your learning that how you
write commands because two things it will show you and after two things you have to do yourself okay this is how you
create ACL 10.0 zero. So you must be thinking sir ACL 1 already used in the
router two right? We have already created ACL number one here. Why we are creating ACL number on R3? There is no
problem. Router 2 ACL has no relation with R3 ACL. You can create ACL1 here
also. On R2 also R1 also because they are local significant in
okay if you create ACL on R3 it will be R3 ACL not R2 ACL. Okay. Like uh like if
I want to buy a phone, I can also buy the same phone what you bought, right? So my phone is my phone, your phone is
your phone, right? The same way your ASL is your ACL. I don't have any problem with your ACL. So this is why you have
you can have a same number. Okay, that's called in technical language
that's called local significant that whatever as you create that is local to
the router. It is not global. It is not going anywhere. So then after that you give permit any command. On R3 we give
the permit any command. That's it. And then you go to the particular interface.
You go to this GI G0 which is 00. I think this is the gig 0.
You can verify with CDP. Where is gig 0? Yes because switch 3 is connected. So
switch three is connected and this interface is gig zero. For your memory
you can write here gig 0 because in activity labs interfaces are
somehow okay and you go to the gig zero and say
IP access group because all that traffic all that traffic
be traffic from 10.0 zero. It is coming inside from these two sides, right?
Maybe traffic can go from this side, come from this side. But all traffic is coming out from this interface be
traffic from both these two interfaces. It is inbound. But for this interface
because this is going in this direction, gig 0 is going to be my out.
Okay, if you are not able to understand guys just and the previous lab was easy.
Okay, just do this lab. I'm not expecting you become expert in one day. Okay, but try to do this because even
the commands are written. I'm showing you also how to do it. I'm not giving you and saying please do it yourself. At
least I'm also showing you that how you can follow this guide and implement. Now
we have applied and now let's try. You can see earlier I was able to ping and
now we are not able to ping. So it means ACL is working fine also in R3.
R2 configured, R3 configured. And now I think lab is going to ask you
to just verify. Okay, this lab is only to just follow the guide. The lab is not
asking you to do some extra stuff. But if you go to the nodes, I have already
given another ACL named extended extended. And if you scroll down, there
are two more ACL also. So try to do this like 5.2.7
I think. Uh or maybe you can try 5.5.1 to be discussion whatever discussion you
guys uh if you get stuck if you have any question just you can go to your doubt
portal and uh we can discuss this lab als. So this is like your extra learning. Okay. But what is mandatory?
This lab this lab is mandatory for all of you.
Okay. So this is the thing for today guys. And standard ASL is very easy. I'm
not going with extended ACL just because I do not want to rush. Okay. Even I
supposed to cover the extended ASL today but no worries. I'll cover extended ACL and NAT topic for tomorrow. So tomorrow
it is going to be super day because you will going to actually connect the real internet tomorrow. Okay. So let me show
you what I'll be going to teach you today. Tomorrow. So tomorrow I'll show you the NAT stuff. Okay. So maybe I'm
showing you that uh uh I'll create ACL like uh
like this. Okay. This is like how I select the traffic. This is to select a traffic and after that I give the NAT
command something what I'll explain you tomorrow like ipnat inside source list two and I'm going to convert all of them
into the fa01 because fa1/z has a public IP. Okay. So
I'm converting all these private IPs into public IP by typing a overload
keyword. And this interface is my outside interface. So discussion I'm
just showing you what we call in next episode we will see we are going to learn this to actually like uh I'm sure
you have a habit of uh watching web series.
Okay. So this is what we are going to see in the next class. Okay. and uh
interface fa01 which is your inside. Okay. So what will
happen this fa1/z IP address DCP no shutdown. So
I'll explain you everything tomorrow about an ad and what will happen uh like
you will have some IP address on that interface.
Yes, we got the IP. So you can see because this router is actually connected to my office router and you
can see I'm able to ping google.com on internet on the router. Let's say ping google.com.
Yes, I'm able to ping google.com. And now if I go to this window machine and
let's try to check if I'm able to access the internet here.
Okay. So let's hope for the best. I think we are connected to internet also
this Windows machine. Let's go and check
networkings. Yes.
See the tagline is also good, right? Learn from engineers
and if you do not have a job, get the job also, right? So this is how we got
how we got the internet access to these machines. how this machine will get the internet access then how we will block
the internet tomorrow after a NAT after NAT you will be able to understand the
extended ACL also because that's why I'm keeping the extended ACL just because without internet extended ACL will not
be a fun extended ACL is good when you know the NAT thing when you know how to get the
internet access okay yeah za I'm sharing so if anybody has uh do not have the my
email id uh so that email id ID id so I
think in the notes I'll share that okay go to your notes I think I have already shared my email id there
silly silly
So I'm adding into your nodes. So the nodes uh nodes nodes nodes I think.
Yeah. Okay. So guys uh uh this is where
I'll had put a headline here CCNP nodes. Okay. But the people who joined us with
for only CCNP. So these are the CCNA topics what we have covered so far.
Okay. So but I'm giving you those notes also. Okay. Because uh you can revise
your CCNA from those notes. Okay. But CCNP notes will start from here. So this
is the ACL topic. And let me color this with my favorite color. Yeah. ACL. Okay.
Okay. So these these notes I'll share in the uh in the live portal in the
WhatsApp channel okay and if you do not have that WhatsApp channel what we have created uh please go to your live portal
from where we have attended the class today right nwlive.nwkings.com nwkings.com I'm sure you have the access
and if you do not have access don't worry because in the starting of the batch sometimes uh my team is able to
create your lab access lot of things going on okay so don't worry about the things if you have taken admission
recently okay if you are old student if you are getting issue then obviously
and I'm sharing my email ID if you want but I'm not a guy who read every email
sbatarum but still I'm sharing
if I do not revert your email in any case if you forward please for uh just
uh poke me again and again if you want me to answer on emails okay because I do
not want to miss and juniper videos I will ask my team to share do not be in
hurry don't ask them tomorrow just give us 2 three days it will be added to your portal automatically. Okay, clear.
So, how is the topic today? Good, bad,
good, good,
I have a question. Yeah, yeah, please. I just miss my hand.
Yeah. Yeah, Fred. uh just uh let the ask and I'll take your question also. Okay,
don't worry. Yeah. Uh so when you show the packet tracer uh
diagram so that time I confuse uh uh which uh is the source and which is the
destination. So can you actually we have not spent much time by
learning the theory part here. Okay. If you get separate time start checking
what is the requirement. So you can see before applying this is the all things are written over here. Okay. So you can
see this is the following routing policies you have to implement. So it is like from consider these are your three
locations Di, Mumbai, Chennai. Okay. So now the manager the manager of your
company is asking you to block 11.0 which is in Di. Okay. So you want daily
users will not access the Mumbai server. Are you getting now? Yes sir. Okay.
Okay. R1, R2, R3 people don't understand easily. So consider Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai. Okay. Now Deli traffic you want
Mumbai to not access. Okay. Because every company will give you such requirements in future. Okay. Because
when you become a network security guy, so companies will daily ask you something. Okay. Like block this user.
Okay. block Delhi to Mumbai. Okay. So Dellay traffic should not come to Mumbai router. Okay. So they can ask
you anything, right? Because if you are a network guy, they keep giving you request and you have to follow that. Yes
or no? Yes sir. ACL
requirement company gives I'm be I will be the engineer who understand requirement and configure that. So right
now it is your first class or maybe if you have done earlier also I don't know but if it is your first ACL class I'm
expecting you to cover this lab only slowly one when you learn about extended
ASIL when you learn about few further more ASIL things then please uh then try
to do yourself okay so by the way I think on YouTube we have already created ACL one there is a video okay So you can
see here let's block CCNA CCNP something to GEI class A it's English class only
this is I have covered fully on packet tracer okay and then to yourself okay so by the
way I think on YouTube we have already created
so guys this is the lab okay so just watch this complete video also okay and
uh you can see here and this same lab I would recommend you to follow this and
this is the same lab what I shown you today okay so follow this video I'm adding in your notes also okay so I want
all of you to watch this video it is also extra homework for you all so that
you can follow these guides you can follow the today class tomorrow also we will learn so multiple
uh labs you have to do for one topic so that you get habitual of that topic and
whenever any requirement comes in the industry at least you will be able to understand. Are you getting my point?
Yes sir. To logic. Now let's uh Fred Fred has a question. Yes sir.
One question. Uh sir you give a
notes portal. So it is for lifetime for us. Notes is for lifetime. Doubts is also
for lifetime. Okay. Yeah.
Yes. Fred, what's your doubt? Yes. So, can you show me the topology again? Let me
the packet tracer one or the lab one? The lab one. Okay. Yes,
this is the lab.
Okay. So you said like so the assess list that is
blocking uh the Windows machine, right? You said
to apply it on the interface F00, right? Yes. Yes.
But my question is you said if you apply it on F A01, right?
Mhm. the users won't be able to access the internet. Yes. Are we able to access internet
right now on these machines? Yes. Now, right now I've shown you that Windows 4 is able to access the internet. Why?
Because I have applied the ACL on FA00. Let me show you. Yeah. Yeah. But but my question is right
since the access list is specified to a specific subnets, right?
Mhm. Why won't if you apply it on interview because you are saying like
the machine right the the the PC is not able to assess the other one right it is
specific to it it's not like the yeah but but right now you see that standard ASL as a requirement 2.22.4
should not access 1.2 to right? Yes, I get upper. I I got the objective. But in the ACL
there is no in standard ACL there are no features where we can put the destination IP. You can see ACL when we
created the rule. We have only given the source IPs. So router do not know where
you are actually going. Can you see the commands? Okay. So have we mentioned the destination is
1.2? No. No. That's yeah that's the reason
because standard ACL is a source based ACL which based source based source IP
based ACL okay that's why we have to uh because router is not checking where the
packet is going that's why I have taken the decision to apply on fa00 if right
now you can see guys I can access the internet right so you can see like if I search networking satul sharma okay
still the internet access is working everything is working fine. Okay. If anybody is not connected to me on
LinkedIn, you can connect. Okay. So now if I apply to FA01, let's see what will
happen. The same rule, I'm not creating ACL again. The same rule I apply now IP
access group one in. So what will happen now if I check the Windows 4 and let's
go and type here. Let's uh say Gorov.
Okay. So you can see I'm not able to search Gorov now. Yes.
Okay. It is like browsing. It is not moving. But once I remove the ACL from here
again, once I remove from here by typing no.
Okay. My Windows 4 machine will give me the search very soon.
Let's enter again. Yes. Yeah, it's working again.
Okay, got the point? So that's why I do not apply here because if I apply here, the
router will block all those both the users for everything for because the
router is not checking the destination. Router is only checking the source IP. Okay. So that only block 2.2 block 2.4.
But these machines cannot go anywhere from now. If I so uh let me ask you one
question. Suppose if I have any other user here. Okay. Consider there is a
user here. So what do you think the router is able to communicate with that uh sorry the uh computer Linux user can
access this server. If I have another server so depending on how you you apply the
right. So no understand my question again. So suppose this IP is 1.3.
Okay. So do you think the Linux machine will able to ping 13?
No. Yes. Because FA0 is blocking now completely Linux machine. No 2.3 and 2.2
2.2 and 2.4. So these machines cannot go on this
link. this link will not allow them to go to this side because this is standard ACL and when you say R2 block 2.2 block
2.4 Therefore, the router will block everything for that user on that particular link. That's why I'm saying
when when that traffic is going outside then only block the traffic because if
you apply if you block in inbound the people will not be able to access the
internet also. That's why I applied here on FA00.
Okay. Got it. Got it. Thank you. And also like you said you share the
note the notes on the WhatsApp. I don't know but the group I am in I which one which one
you said you share the notes on WhatsApp or yeah I'll share after the class. I I'll
share after the class. Okay. But I haven't seen the ones you shared
previously in the previous the previous link will be updated automatically. You do not have
to get the link again and again. Just open that and you will see the ACL in the scroll down and you will see notes.
Yeah, I'm saying in the you say you share in the WhatsApp group or Yeah, you have that WhatsApp group or
not? I have a WhatsApp group like CCMP plus CCNA. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is my channel. So
I'll share there also. I'm saying if you miss the link, I'll share the link there also. Okay.
Oh, because I don't see the notes in that chat. So I I No, no. I'll share the link link also
there. Okay. Is there okay? Yeah. Yes. Anybody has a question, guys?
Yes, sir. I have I have a doubt. Yes. Hello.
Sir, how I can access the labs? Actually, I missed few classes. Okay.
So, I I need to know that how I can access the labs, sir. Is there any video available regarding that? So, can I can
go through that video, sir? Uh yes when okay okay okay okay there how to there
is a video called uh how to access I'm searching raxn network things but it
is not opening anything on that no no you can see there is a video how to access labs watch this video okay I'm
adding in your notes okay sir okay thanks okay so the yes so where should I add in
the ACL class only I add right yes yes let me add here so how to access labs
watch this video. Okay. Yes. Thank you, sir. One more thing. Yes.
This is the question which I wrote here. Generally, we don't go through uh I mean
switches we don't you I mean through the firewall. So, ACL how how can we use it
with the names? I mean as you were telling me so named ACL you are talking about or
number ACL named ACL what both you are asking. No no sorry this is out of topic rather probably.
Uhhuh. Go and see in in organization only while browsing we are using the
firewall gateway otherwise we use direct on a switch to switch.
Mhm. In that case uh you know and we are using DCP.
Mhm. So how can ACL play role there? How can we define ACS there?
So basically ACL is not here to block the traffic. Now you understand these
here you are learning ACL so that we can use in an NAT and when the course go
further I'll teach you EGRP I'll teach you OPF there we use distributed list prefix list to filter the roots because
here for the people as suppose you do not have a firewall in your company okay
somehow you want to block some just because it's too tough to block google.com okay because google has a lot
of servers with correct Yeah. So if you want to do URL filtering only firewall can achieve that
but as I will teach you how to do that. It is like a trick but in real world you
cannot fully depend on Cisco router to block websites. Okay. So BGP and all that that will
there it will be yes OPF EGRP BGP where the ACL is used too much where we are going to filter
the traffic. So ASIL topic is very important for OPF BGP classes. Because
if you don't know how to create as you will not be able to filter that traffic very well. Ah okay. Okay.
Hey got it. Yeah. Yeah. Got it. Thank you. Hello. Yes. One more thing like wanted to ask. Uh
one second let me frame. Uh okay. Let others complete then I'll frame a question. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Sure. Yes. Manoj.
Sir my voice is getting right now. Yes sir. Romesh. Sir actually uh which note you are
sharing right now? I am not getting in previous note uh link which you have
shared already. Don't worry about the notes. Have you joined the WhatsApp channel?
I have joined the WhatsApp channel. Yeah. So I'll share just after the class. Don't worry.
Okay. Okay. One more question. Yes. Can you share the WhatsApp joining link?
Uh that is there in the live portal. Go and check where from where you attended the class
today. Live portal. Huh? Yes sir. Live portal. Yeah, in the live portal the link is
already added. Please go and check. Sir, one link is there. Uh it is showing that support group something that no go
and check again. I think you're not checking properly.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sep you continue. Yeah. See generally suppose we have
multiple offices to connect and we do not have lease lines everywhere. Yeah.
So we have to be dependent on the router IP the DCP man IP
which is dynamic. So then how can we connect those using the Cisco I mean how how can we connect
those offices. So we can use with the IPSecVPN like what we call side toight VPN. There is a
concept called GE tunneling also. Okay. So G tunnel is there. DMVPN is there and
uh if if you do not have money suppose your company do not have a money for MS
links we can use VPN. Okay. So so dynamic protocol with the
VPN is only solution in order then there IG and this will work there.
Yeah. Uh once you have the VPN connection you are having a tunnel right. Correct.
On tunnel you can configure EGRP OSPA whatever. Okay. So even though it is on dynamic IP
does not matter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. If you are talking about the broadband connection or le connection
broadband broadband is like uh it's out of league
for network engineers. It is like a proper see ISPs are working on some
pointto-point protocols P2P L2TP lot of other VPN technologies and all. So they
are working on PPOE also pointtooint over Ethernet. So they give username, password and dynamically the IP is
changing. If you do not have a static IP, you cannot create a VPN tunnel. Oh okay.
Okay. Then there are some routers where you can have some VPN tunnel but they are not stable.
Ah okay. Stability issue. If you have a static IP then only the VPNs or your IP sec
tunnels are more stable. Ah okay. Yeah. So we cannot create. Okay. So unless and
until we have fixed IPs there's no point and also the broadband routers are not capable of creating the VPN tunnels
properly that's also the biggest drawback. Okay. Okay. I hope you are getting my point.
So yeah got it. But suppose if I have firewall which is doing that uh you know PPE resolution then from the firewall we
can use that right. Nowadays firewalls are in the market. Some firewalls maybe
40 gate and all. Maybe they can support broadband and create a beep tunnel because they have some uh dynamic
mapping or some kind of allocations. I'm not sure about that. You can check with the firewall guy.
Yeah. Yeah. So there we can then this IG if we connect then we can use it there within
the fire I mean yeah in firewalls also we can configure routing protocols.
Okay. All right. Yeah. But I'm just I'm thinking about any firewall can support a broadband
connection or not because broadband if it is a static IP then any device can
support router switches firewall. Yes. Correct. Correct. Yeah. But if you do not bring that's why
everyone buy the broadband with a static IP also. Okay. At least you should have one static IP to manage all this stuff.
Ah okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Thank you. Okay
sir. Uh why we why we are using IPS sir
student? No sir.
Yes. Tell me sir actually why we are using IPS actually fire already.
He's asking about IPS in prevention prevention systems. Yes
sir. Layer 7 IPS. Yes. Yes sir. IPS some firewalls
very old firewalls they have only blocking feature. They do not have the functionality to check the viruses
malwares. Right. Okay.
Right. Like Cisco ASA firewall. Okay. Have you heard about ASA firewall? Yes. Yes sir. In my company that
firewall you only using sir. Yeah that's why you guys are using IPS or IDS. Okay sir.
Okay. But if you go for polalto firewall it has a firewall plus IPS plus IDS. All
three combination in one device. That's why they are called next generation firewalls.
So Paul Al is called generation firewalls. Yes sir. Yes sir. Because it has IPS intrusion prevention
system. Intrusion protection system. IPS detection system. IDS intrusion
detection system. Intrusion prevention system one is only detect but IPS can
prevent also detect and prevent from the malware from the attacks like DOS
attacks, email attacks, lot of attacks in the market, right? So those devices are helping you to protect from ransom
viruses all those things. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir.
Okay. And and one more question.
Yes. Yes sir. Cisco Cisco Jinper
sir Cisco Jabber Cisco finish Jabber. Okay. Got it. Jabber. I know. Yes sir.
Yeah.
One way
we will fix in one Okay. So just share with me on the email id
and if your companies agree to take the support from us.
Okay. Freelancing.
Okay. At least share the see if you want me to share some inputs definitely we will do that. But if you really have 6
months issue we are ready to fix that. Okay. Yes sir. I will say but there
should be no problem from the because there is no voice problem because you are saying MRAI when the MRAIVPN
connects there is no problem but when the any connector VPN connects you are
getting one side audio right? Yes sir. Yes sir. Okay. Okay. Got it. I think we can fix
that. We can trace the packets and capture and then we can have we just
share me uh like uh just say hi hello on email or just discuss about just type
what is the issue and try to send me the logs if possible. Okay. Okay sir I will see.
Okay. Okay. Yes. Yes. Uh
basically
so you want to block your employees internal employees of your company.
Public public. Okay. So you want to block public user what they are
accessing? Uh servers. Huh? servers.
Okay. Which server? Public servers. Yes. Which server? Linux server. Which which
server? Window server. Windows server. So in Windows server, you want some public people to not
access that server, right? Yes. On Windows server, what what service you are running? DHCP, DNS or maybe is what
what service? Uh DCP and basically for we are using hosting. Oh, got it. So Windows
DCP and second one I seem mail for mail using purpose only.
Okay. For email exchange server. Yes sir. Exchange server is running and some
people are trying to attack your Windows machine. Yes. Yes. Right. Okay. Okay. So Windows internal firewall
use. Okay. Then go and enable that Windows
firewall. So in Windows server now so there is a Windows firewall.
Okay. So go to that you can see configure firewalls rules with group policy. Can you read see this?
Yeah. Yeah. You can see create an inbound ICMP rule. Okay. Or maybe you can create uh
how to uh like Windows server firewall public IP or uh like this. Okay. or block
public IPs, right? Okay, I public
IP like this. Okay, so you can see how to block all incoming external IP
address. You want to block all you can see the screenshot here. So go to your
Windows Defender. Okay. So in the inbound setting, you can see inbound
connection block. Okay. Okay. outbound connections. Okay. So,
make sure you do not block your internal people. Okay. So, you can just uh think
in this way. So, go to inbound rule. Click on the
protocol ports wizard and all. Make sure you test this thing when you are not in
the production timings. Okay. Okay. Okay. Got it. Okay. And second question is uh when we
forget password routers for router basically sometimes how we can reset it without losing
configuration you want password recovery
password recovery I'll teach you don't worry but right now I have one uh video.
You guys can try that. Okay. Okay. So, do you want me to take class
tomorrow? Yes. So, let me go then. Hello, sir. Pravin side.
Yesvin. Yeah. Uh sir actually question
it's not working. Simple. break.
Mumbai branch is breakout internet breakout at Mumbai branch
kind of siz Suppose
network firewall
say internet breakout.
Zcal SD. Okay.
I'll get back to you
working in this organization. Yeah. Hi sir.
Yes sir. Yes sir. I have a question regarding a
VPN. Mhm. I just want to know that if a company has a suppose a company has a branch
office and they connected with the lease line. M so uh the all the VPN technologies like
whatever it has is is this alternate for that or we can use simultaneously both the thing? See every company has MS so
that they can connect their branch office, head office and all. It is a reliable solution. Okay.
Yeah. Because encrypt encryption is there. Encryption is reliable. Reliable encryption is not required because it is
your private connection, right? But if you go if you have only internet access and you want to connect your branch
office, head office, then encryption is required. That is called VPN tunnels like IPSec tunnel. Okay. Or maybe DMVPN
with IPSec. These things will be used when you want to connect your head office branch offices with the that
thing over internet. Yes, over internet. Okay. Okay. VPN topic like I have just posted
on LinkedIn yesterday a blog also on VPN. Just have a good read of I have seen in the newsletter also LinkedIn.
Yeah. Yeah.
basics related actually it is about B rate I've been
asked for B rate is when you take the console access now
yeah yeah yeah they have given me the scenario that you have given no console
cable has a limitation because console is only not for data transfer it is only
for the CLI transfer right yeah right so B rate works on different
different speed like right now by default you have 9600 right but 9600
because if you increase the B rate but text is coming at high speed then you will not be able to see the data on your
screen right but sometimes we increase the B rate very earlier days to upload
or take the what we call to router upgrade serial cable
okay So it's a very old technology. B rate is just simple word. B rate is used to transfer the CLI data to router to
computer. Simple. Okay. Okay. And by default Cisco device mostly
every device work on 9600 per second BPS.
Thank you sir. Okay.
Firewall
CNCF BGP routing
Right. So that's why people learn CCNA CCNP first then they go to firewalls because firewall trainer routing
and when you go for interview suppose you learn directly firewall like polter batch you have joined so you have
attended a class but he's giving some overview of OPF but because I know that
every firewall trainer expect you to have OPF BGP little bit of BGP knowledge
not too much knowledge But you should have but when you go for interviews they can ask you OPF packets.
Okay. Like tell me what five packets we have in OPF.
Yes sir.
Open
because because mostly NP
student but the best part you joined my current batch where CCNA students are
also here so I'll teach you from the basic don't worry I'll start with OPF
okay so I'm closing for the day guys I think uh some
bye-bye good

