ript


voice issue just hold on. Hello.
Now I'm audible. Okay.
Yes. Good evening everyone.
Yes, good, good, good. Um, not able to login with the laptop.
Okay, Gurrit, what is the issue? I don't know. Health better.
leg.
Yes. Yes. Samir, you can talk now. Good evening, sir.
Yes. Good evening. Please uh provide link to packet tracer
for MacBook. Uh so please uh make uh
like what we call there is a website skills for all.com.
I'll share one video how to download packet tracer. Don't worry. Okay. After the class.
Yes. Good evening. Uh sir where I download notes and uh labs for packet
tracer sir. Uh packet tracer labs uh I share with in
my notes only. You have my notes link right?
Yes sir. There is a website.
Yeah. In that website I've already shared the what you call notes link. Go and check
that. Let me show you.
Go to CCNP batch and there uh like if you scroll down there is a notes link
here. You can see that right? Okay. And also there is a WhatsApp uh
channel link for the notifications. Okay. Okay. So let's see the leaderboard
score here. Okay. Please don't check all time because many students are learning CCNA
from me. But if we check from the last seven days. So this guy Ringuam is on
the highest. Maybe he scored very good in the last quiz. Okay. But that was
like now most of the CCNA topics are done. Okay. And if we see like CCNP and
RC okay so today we are going to learn the first topic today. Okay. That is
EGRP. Even if you go to the CCNP and RC module okay and we are going to learn
the latest 1.1 version. Okay just hold on guys.
Okay. So let's start. Yes. Good evening everyone.
Uh lab password. Tushar. Everyone has their own password. Your email id is your password. Okay. Please check the
email and if any issue please contact support team. Yes. Hi. Good evening.
So I think we can start the topic and I'll take your questions uh between the
session and also end of the session. Okay. TK G.
So let's start. So those who recently joined for only
CCNP batch uh CCNP NRC or CCNP NRC plus
encore. Okay. So I'll give a quick overview.
just five minutes.
Okay. So, so if you go and check uh this thing what we call the CCNP content. So, this
is what we are going to learn the latest exam topic and uh right now official
guide is also there what I'm going to buy for you. Okay. So you do not have to buy this. Uh the but on the Cisco
website like if you check Cisco press uh the latest uh book is in the market
now uh I think uh where if you go to CCNP enterprise.
Okay. So they recently launched this book uh CCNP enterprise advanced routing
second edition. So this is the latest book and uh this is not available in the
hard copy. Only PDF is available all over the world. I think in USA you can
buy it. Okay. But uh you do not have to pay this $90 uh like I'll be going to buy it for
uh this batch. Okay. So the CCMP RC advance. when you see the
book. Okay. So this book expect you that you already have some knowledge. Okay.
Because if you check the syllabus it is written troubleshooting administrative distance troubleshoot loop prevention
mechanism troubleshoot manual auto. So basically you will only understand
troubleshooting when you know the topic. So it means if we know what is admin
administrative distance and what is route map, what is loop prevention.
Okay. So this is exam topics. If you check what is this exam topics. So when
you are going to give for the CCNP exam and no need to give CCN exam nowadays
you can directly go and write the CCNP exam. Okay. The exam cost is around $300
for NRC and $400 for the encore. Okay. So CCNA is not mandatory. You can
directly give the CCNP exam which has more value in the market. Okay. Okay. So now when you see this NRC which stand
for enterprise advanced infrastructure implementation there are four section layer 3 technologies VPN technologies
infrastructure security and infrastructure services. So 35% of your exam come from this topic
EGRP OSPF BGP. Okay. And then 20% of
your exam will come from MLS and DMVPN. and 20% exam will come from basic things
like tax radius IPv6 uh topics and uh cop control plane policy URPF okay IPv4
ACL and IPv6 uh traffic filter okay so
infrastructure services this is the fourth section where you have to learn about basic TNET uh SNMP simple network
management protocol DHCP for IPv4 and IPv6 and There is IPS SLA which is uh
called tracking which it's a good topic and there is a net flow and there are
some DNA just we have to take the overview of the DNA center okay so but
what I recommend you uh so if you click on the I think uh
here or there is some
okay so this This is what is better content to learn rather because these are exam topics you will never
understand properly what topics we can learn. But if you go even the best thing
you can go and check the book okay that what topic should I learn okay like we have to learn EGRP fundamentals EGRP
configuration modes pathmetric calculation all these things and then advanced EGRP chapter 3 then we can
troubleshoot EGRP then EGRP for version 6 okay so just understand the first five
chapters are related to EIGRP my voice has a is today.
Okay. OPF uh then OPF chapter you can see OPF fundamentals configuration. So
mostly all of the topics we will be going to cover. Okay. And according to the industry designs
okay and other way you can start here also like configure EIGRP named mode.
This is the simple syllabus what we can learn. Okay. So we can learn and we can
copy paste here also. Okay. So let me create a card. Okay. So let me write the
name here. Uh topics to be covered.
Topics to so that you on the first day you understand that what we have to cover. Okay. Okay. So in mostly every
topic we will be going to cover. Okay. and some extra content if it is required
I'll share with you also okay so now what is the prerequest
what you should you should have basic knowledge of LAN okay at least you should know basic VLAN fundamentals you
should know about some network fundamentals like OSAI model TCP IP and general understanding how devices and if
you have already CCNA knowledged okay then it is also a good thing.
Okay. So these are the labs like you can learn about EGRP basic configuration.
Okay. We have to like let's say the lab outline. So these are the labs what we have to
perform. Okay. So
okay. So these are the labs. So like EGRP we have to learn the EGRP configuration.
Now there are two modes. classic mode what we will cover today and the named mode I'll try to cover today or maybe
let's say like we'll cover this tomorrow okay we will understand today EGRP
topology EGRP star routing summarization these topics we'll cover next week okay
because uh we have only classes on Monday and Tuesday I'm sure everybody know the schedule uh that we are on
Monday and Tuesday okay and the timing is at around 9:30 p.m. Okay. Class run
at around 12:00 p.m. Okay. So, 2.5 hours approx Monday and Tuesday only.
So, uh then till after EGRP then we have to cover OPF for IPv4, IPv6. So, now
when you see OPF version 3, this is the latest version but we will cover the basic OPF also. Okay. Like we will cover
OPF also, OPF version 3 also. Then we have to understand link state database
which is very very important. Okay. Then troubleshoot authentication configure OPF issues.
Troubleshoot OPF issues sorry manipulate redistribution. This is like how EAGRP
OPF can talk to each other. Then we have a topic called PBR policy based routing.
Like suppose you want to forward your website traffic from ATEL but you want
to forward your uh maybe email traffic from ISP2. Are you getting my point that
like email traffic ISP2 okay website traffic you want to forward
from ISP 1 email traffic you want to forward from ISP2 that we can achieve with the PBR which is called policy
based routing. policy based routing. So it's a good topic and after that we will
be going to learn the BGP. So BGP is very vast here that we have to learn
IBGP which is very important. EBGP like how companies connect with different
companies then BGP path selection okay advanced features of BGP route
reflectors okay how to configure that and multi-protocol BGP which is related
to MS and BGP okay and troubleshoot BGP issues and then we have DMVPN topic
which is again a good topic and automatically uh you will understand what VRF I will
show to you this topic also configure MS layer 3B VPN this is a topic from my
side uh this is not in the syllabus but still we will be going to cover that
okay some uh some topics about URPF URPF is uh like uh unique cast reverse
path forwarding and I can't see cop okay so these are the lab basically and
some topics like coop or some basic uh explain how packets so whenever you see
explain that you need to understand only theory part but when there is a lab you can see there was no lab of MS but I
have added from my side okay so this is the like overview what we have to learn
today okay so let's configure the first topic today without any further delay configure EGRP with classic mode so
today we will be going to cover EGRP classic mode okay so let's Open the lab
directly. No time waste. Okay.
Okay. So you can perform this lab in packet tracer also. You can use GNS3 and
if you have already enrolled in networkings, you can uh do the same lab in the uh brack also. Okay. Now
when you join the NRC I think uh like let me
just hold on.
Okay. Okay. So I'll be giving you one lab guide. Okay. which I'm going to copy in
your notes also. Okay, under the CCN pin RC. So this is
the lab guide what I'm sharing with you all today. Okay. So now when you download this, okay, so you will see
this is the first lab static routing. If you want to do static routing, I think you already have this knowledge. Please
do this lab yourself. Static routing. Okay. But uh uh this is the lab two what
we will be going to cover. So when you log into the servers okay because and
how you will get this username and password okay so you will get the username password from networkings okay
please check your emails properly and if you have not got it then please contact support team okay you go to your website
learn.nwkings NWKings. This is where you will watch all your videos and the live portal for your all live classes and go
to contact us and there is a support team. Just click here and contact support team for uh if you guys get into
any lab issue or something. Okay. And please contact between 10:00 a.m. to
6:30 p.m. After 6:30 p.m. uh like u uh we are not available. Okay. Then your
problem will be fixed next day. Okay. Okay. So once you got your lab access
just log and now what lab guide is showing you the lab guide what lab access so you can see lab two number lab
two and now you go to this section which is called routing and under the lab 2
you have to look after lab two compare lab two lab 2 lab two you can control f
and search for lab two you can see eagp basic and open this lab okay so now you
can see the same lab what we have created here. Okay, this is the same lab
what we will be going to learn today. Okay, because I believe we should learn
the lab first and then theory so that you get an idea. This is my way of teaching.
Okay, so now consider what is EGRP that all four routers will share information
with each other. Okay, so even the configuration is written over here. Okay. So now first of all I'll go and
start the devices. Start. Start. Start and start. Okay. Very simple.
So and when you open these devices,
okay, I'm not able to check your chat messages right now. I'll check. Don't worry.
And if I miss your chat message also, please uh message again. Okay. Sometimes
when I'm in class, I can't teach and read at the same time, right? But I'll
keep checking your messages at specific 10 intervals like 5 minutes, 10 minutes
like that. Yes, I'll kash I have already shared the book. Okay. The latest CC book, CCNP
book also I have to buy and then I'll share with you. Okay.
I don't have right now. I have the old version. Okay. But uh I want you to
learn from the latest version. Okay. So now you can see the lab is
ready. Four uh thing four routers are ready and these are the consoles. Select
all and just drag outside. And now you have a console ready in the web browser
only. You do not have to go anywhere. You can do labs from your office. You can do labs anywhere. Okay. But you
should have a laptop. Okay. Don't expect labs run on mobile phones. Okay. So now
this is R1, R2, R3 router. Okay. We have four routers and these four routers will
share information with each other. So what is the logic? I have created a loop back here. What is loop back? I have I
don't have physical interface here and I don't have this cable. So I'm for
testing for a testing I will create a virtual interface here. Okay. And I will
add this in EGRP so that all routers will get this information. Okay. And
there are four other loop backs we can create on R1. So basically funi is simple that consider these loop backs
are the LAN network. These are the LAN network of R4 and these are the LAN
network of R1. Okay. So now what is my goal that we will be able to ping from
this router to loop back. Okay. All routers should be able to ping loop back
and all routers should be able to ping the R1 networks also. Okay. So we do not
have LAN interfaces there. So when you are doing routing topics like EGRP, OPF,
so we have to imagine that there are LAN networks and that we can do with loop back. So li loop backs are like uh
testing virtual interfaces. Okay. So that maybe in future because
right now suppose I have four branches DI, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata. So first
what I'm doing I'm connecting my all four routers D, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and after that in future maybe after 2
months 3 months I will build my LAN network also. So till that time my LAN devices are on the way. Okay, we have
ordered Cisco devices we will build a LAN network. But right now I'm making sure I I'll make sure that Di Mumbai,
Chennai, Kolkata, all four branches will connect together
networking.
Okay, we will be using loop back for testing. Okay. So that we will be able to understand in future when these LAN
networks will actually come in my devices the routers will be able to ping
each other because what is routing? Language between routers is routing.
Very simple. So what is routing? That language between routers how routers talk to each
other. Okay. So routers talk to each other with the help of dynamic routing.
Okay. So which routing? Dynamic routing. And there are different different protocols under dynamic routing. Okay.
So if I show you right now
okay so there are different different so right now if I show you directly these big big charts you will be clueless and
you will be confused. Okay. That what is repo SPF ARP. So right now what I am
trying to say so just understand in a simple language that routers talk to each other and what is my goal that we
will be able to ping each other okay so let's do the lab first okay you will automatically understand what I'm trying
to say okay so guys you can see the R1 R2 R3 R4
all four routers are air okay and we will going to write the
configuration in and a notepad. Okay, so the notepad is text editor.
Okay, so let me increase the size. Let me turn off the grammar. Okay, and let's
start enable config t host name R1, right? And copy this because we have to
configure four routers. Okay, so host name R2, host name R3, host name R4.
This is how you do bulk configuration. copy paste and write configurations. After that we have interface FA 0.
Okay. And the IPS between R1 and R3 there is a network 13 because 1 313 2 4
like 3 and 4 34 2 and 4 24 1 and 212. This is how I'm using subnets. So this
is a good nomature. It's a good way to just give subate because sometimes when we do lab we get confused what IP should
I use. So I just simply say 192 168 because after 192 168 these the third
octet is all different. Okay. Like here we have 13 12 34 and these all are class
C. Okay. So that's why there is no problem. Okay. So interface now this is
13. So router is router one. So I'm giving IP address 192 16813.1
because this is router one. So I'm using.1 in the last. Very simple. No
shutdown. Very simple lab. F A01.
Now tell me what subnet we have 1 into 12. The IP address 192 168 12.1 because
this is router one. Okay. In industry maybe the IPs are different but I'm here uh to give IPs in
such a way so that you understand the concept okay don't get confused in IP addresses use always simple addressing
once you understand the topic from very basic then you can give any IP then you
will not be confused okay now you can see we have four different
networks here we will create loop backs okay like interface loop back zero so
loop loop back start from 0 to 4 million something you can create millions of loop backs okay but it start from zero
you can give 1 10 20 whatever so I'm starting from zero IP address 192 168
again this is router one so I'm here giving 0.1
I'll explain loop back more don't worry okay right now just consider these are testing interfaces consider these are my
departments maybe in future where I have sales, marketing, support. Okay. Or uh
uh admin four departments. So this network belongs to my uh sales department. This is for marketing
department 1.1. Okay. So uh then we have support department which is maybe loop
back two. And here the subnet is 2.1. We have loop back 3 which is like 3.1.
Okay. And it is not mandatory. If you are using three here, you have to take three here. No, you can take 30 also. 20
also 29 also but just for the easy I'm just giving 0 1 2 3 okay so now these
are my these are my testing interfaces okay so that in future when you have
these type of networks subnet mask is not wrong this is correct
okay so if you want you can give 255 also okay but you should know exactly
uh that for loop back I'm here to explain the loop back. Okay. But it's not mandatory to always give
255 because all 255 means one single IP. But why I'm giving zero here? Because
I'm representing a network here. That's why I'm giving zero here. So I'm saying that we have / 24 here not 30 uh
something. Okay. If we have given 25 here. Okay. So that's your choice. But
I'll go that you should go with the basic 24 only.
I think you get confused here. Okay. And in the lab guide, in the lab guide only
we have added one loop back. This is additional in the lab. If you do not want your choice, okay, but uh if you
want you can configure. Okay, that's your choice. But right now in the lab guide only 44 loop back is there. Okay.
And we have not given the basic IP addressing configuration directly. We have added EGRP because we expect you to
at least you know how to give IP addressing.
Okay. So R2 after that FA01 IP address 192 16812.2
this is router 2. So all subnets send with two
very simple interface FA00 IP address 192 16824.2
two. Okay. So, loop backs are not required no
shutdown. Okay. So, loop backs are virtual interfaces. So, once you created
once you create loop backs you do not have to give no shutdown command because they are virtual interfaces they
automatically come up. So once you create a loop back automatically the loop back comes up. Okay. But physical
interfaces are down by default. So you have to give no shutdown. Okay to shut
down the physical interface. So here fa00 where we have to give 24.2 and
there is no loop back required in R2. So then we have host name R3
and in R3 so FA000
fa00 is 13.3. This is router 3. of 13.3 and FA01
you have 34.3 right 34.3
very simple again let's go with the router 4 router 4
router 4 f00 24
because router 4 and fa01 34
very simple Let's we have one loop back here 444. So interface loop back 0 IP address
4.4.4 four you can give four also one also whatever okay but I'm using /24
that's it we all are okay with the basic config right
and uh if you want I can copy the screenshot
and go and add the lab here so that you can refer this
okay and I'm also giving you the basic IP addressing configuration so that you do not miss this. Okay. So, timely
all nodes will be yours. Okay. So, we can say this is uh EGRP
EGRP lab. Okay. Or EGRP basic lab. Okay.
mobile.
Okay. So basic lab is here, basic IP is here and rest all configuration you can
check from the lab guide. Okay. So now so what is going to happen one we have
to assign because I have given in the notepad now I'm going to copy paste okay
so copy router one so control alt shift okay so because how
this is HTML console the copy paste will not work so you have to say control alt shift or if you are using MacBook option
shift and command okay so click on text input and Here you are going to copy paste all the configuration. So you can
see we have given the IPs everything router is okay and automatically the interfaces are coming up. You can verify
also by typing show ip
show ip interface brief. Okay guys,
we have both the interfaces 13.1 and 12.1 and router has this information 12
and 13. So I think we have not added loop back. So loop backs are missing. So we have to copy paste the loop backs
also. So I missed to copy. So again control alt shift text input.
Okay. But have to say config t and then paste the loop backs. So now you can see
we have added the loop backs also. All four loop backs automatically came up once we created. Okay. And we can verify
this with show ip interface brief and we have almost six interfaces. Two are
physical interfaces and four are virtual interfaces. But still router do not care
what is my physical or virtual. Router only understand that all my interfaces
will go in the routing table. So now you can see whether it is physical, whether it is directly connected. Router is
saying I know about these six networks. Yes or no?
Router. I know about these six networks. I do
not care whether they are physical or by or virtual. I only know that I have six
interfaces, six networks in my routing table. Okay, so these are called network
ids because the first IP address of the subnet is called a network ID. So these
are the home addresses of all your networks. Okay, so the same way we go to
R2 and copy paste. I'm sure till now basic IP addressing
going on. So you might not have any doubt. Okay. So control alt shift text
input. Okay. So I copy paste here. I think enable. Okay. Because enable is already enabled.
IP address basic config. Done. Router 3.
So easy. Very simple app.
Okay. Okay. So, text input and paste.
Okay. So, router 3 is also done. And if you do not like copy paste now,
you can directly type in the router. But in production networks, we mostly use notepads. That's why I want you to have
a habit of putting the configuration in notepad and then copy paste because in the production network we always use
notepads and then copy paste the configuration because when you copy paste from the notepad these are your
logs that what you are typing in the router. Okay. So
this is a good practice. Okay. And you can see we have created
loop back here. And this router has how many interfaces? Three. two physical
interfaces and one virtual interfaces. So remember we have given 4441.
So now tell me do you think do you think we will be able to ping from router one
that we will be able to ping from router one to loop back of router 4.
Do you think we will be able to ping without routing? No. Need routing right to
packet. Okay. What we need packets? What packets? What information? So basically
in static routing we have to do manual routing. So router one has to be
informed for loop back four. Then about these networks we have to manually add the static routes if you remember. Okay.
So very simple like you go to config ip route 4440
then subnet mask then you put the next hop. So this is all like complicated a
little bit because we have to know the destination network destination.
Okay we should know about the destination networks. But if your company is bigger do you think every
time you will check okay what what networks we have in Mumbai? what networks we have in Chennai.
So obviously you do not have time you focus on sharing your networks with each
other. So basically now even if you don't know what is your destination that
what should you add in the routing table you just have to advertise you have to advertise
advertise means you have to only inform about your networks and when everyone start informing about each other they
will automatically share information with each other and that's what we call dynamic routing because all router
sharing information with each other after Whenever there is update so all
the routers are forwarding information with each other and these are called dynamic routing protocols. So these
protocols are dynamic routing protocols and the first one we
are learning is EIGRP OPF okay and BGP is also like dynamic routing but it is
in the different category. Okay. So there was a protocol called RIP which is obsolete. Okay. No need to learn this.
But if you are VA right if you have time 5 10 minutes or 1 hour 2 hour you can
learn RIP also because in very small routers RIP protocol is still there.
Okay but production companies are not using RIP because it has a limit of 15
routers only. So after 15 16 routers will not work. So the most important
protocol OSPF okay like 80 to 90% companies are using
OPF but EGRP is also used manywhere okay and it's a part of our content so we
have to learn that okay simple so now dynamic routing forwarding of packets
with each other exchange of routing information with each other is called dynamic routing okay so if you ask me
oneliner that if anybody Somebody ask you in interview sir what is dynamic routing? What should I say in the
interview to line? Okay. So what is
dynamic routing? Okay. Exchange of routing information.
Exchange of routing information between the routers.
Okay. Exchange of routing information between the routers is known as routing.
Exchange of routing information automatically.
Okay. So dynam automatically means that you do not have to do anything
automatically router obviously basic configuration is required but once you
are done once you are done anything happens wrong. Suppose this is my
department and this network goes down. If this network goes down, suppose this
is my LAN network. So do you want do you want that router 4 should inform all
routers that my network is down? Network down to
do you want if the LAN network goes down the router should update other routers?
If yes then dynamic routing is for you. Okay. So the other line.
Okay. So whenever there is a update whenever there is an update
router inform other routers using
packets. Okay. So there are some packets which we'll be discussing. Exchange of routing information. And what is routing
by the way? What is routing? Forwarding of packets. Forwarding of
packets from one router to
or one network to another. Okay. One network to another network is known as
routing. Okay. And there are uh three types of routing. I hope you remember three types of routing. So one is called
static routing which you already know default routing which might you know
okay or go and revise that okay and then we have dynamic routing protocols and
today we are learning that EIGRP okay so what is D so now these dynamic
routing protocols like EIGRP OPF BGP all these okay so what they do exchange of
routing information automatically so if you see dynamic routing ing and if you
click on the images so you will see that uh yeah this is the better one
okay so if you check about dynamic routing so it's a big list
okay so now you can see in dynamic routing we have IGP and EGP
okay so IGP stand for interior gateway protocol which interior means the
protocols which work inside the company and EGP stand for exterior gateway
protocol. So IGP and EGP they are category okay and these are also like
algorithms distance vector algorithms link state algorithm and there is hybrid which is like EGRP only and path vector
algorithm okay which algorithm they work on so RIP is actually very old one okay
still if you want you can learn that okay and IGRP which is obsolete sysore
IGRP is now EIGRP IGRP stand for interior Interior gateway routing
protocol and this is enhanced enhanced interior gateway routing protocol. Okay,
BGP is border gateway protocol. This is for the different different companies. Okay, IGP EGP. So what is IGP versus EGP
protocol? So like company inside the company what they do? Okay, so inside
the company if you take the screenshot of this
Okay. So a routing protocol operates within the company or which is in the company
because every company has a number because in BGP what I I'll explain you
in BGP very well what is AS number and all but right now you can consider that
every big company has a number called AS number and this AS number means one
company. Okay, every company has AS number. So inside the company when you
run any protocol that is RIP, EIGRP, OPF these are protocol. But when one company
connect with another company. So it means when two different AS number
talk to each other like AL okay like one of the ISP you want to connect ISP with
your router then we have to use one protocol that is BGP because exterior gateway protocol
connection outside the company is called exterior gateway protocol only one
protocol in the market BGP and interior has many option RIP OSPF EGRP IGB Okay,
BGP is very very old protocol but there are lot of technologies in the market today. Okay, I was reading about segment
routing which is uh the best thing in the market today what people should know
when they are in the ISP. Okay, like earlier it was MS. Okay, but
now the segment routing is the next big thing in the market. Okay, that
I think you should learn about EGRP. It's a technology that we know where to
forward the path and we will forward one packet and in every packet we will have
segments. Okay. Basically the router one already know how to go to R six step by step. That's a next level technology
that R1 already know where he wants to go like Google map and a Google map already know where to go like if I want
to go from DI to Japur it will like it will show you the traffic everywhere.
But what if the Google map will show you how much tall you are going to pay, how
much uh uh like maybe uh fast food restaurants will come in the road what
we call everything is not showing in the Google maps right that uh maybe you have to search yourself little bit but just
imagine if you know everything okay that okay I want to go from this side if the
traffic is there on the top path I'll go from another path so it's like very advanced thing which is uh uh segment
routing and uh the ISP company the people who are working in the ISP domain
must learn segment routing after MS without MS without uh RSVP segment
routing is tough to learn okay so it's said just ignore if you are just new
okay so just I was talking about the latest at least you should make uh notes
whenever I give you some ideas that okay after my CCNA CC CCNP. Okay. I have to
learn some segment routing topic. Okay. Or maybe uh these topics we teach in the CCNP
service provider. Okay. Segment spelling.
Okay. So, segment routing. Now you can see the segment routing is like on packages 30 to 40 lakhs, Hitachi and uh
mostly everyone like if you see the big companies
segment routing. Okay. But because uh uh they are asking
about the the these are ISP domain but
uh somewhere people have written maybe segment
routing okay research papers are also there okay
so I'm just motivating you to don't stick to these small topics eagp OSP BGP
what we are learning now so this is like everybody knows Right now mostly every network engineer knows about this stuff.
So at least you have to be expert in this domain. So once you are very good
at EGRP, OSP, BGP, MLS, then you can try latest technologies. Okay. So that's why
I'm telling you latest technology is little far away from you right now. So whatever you are learning today, it's
very very important. Don't feel like this is a topic. Feel like this is what I must do.
because this is the basic parameters, basic topics to learn in as a network
guy. Okay, if you want to get into cyber security or maybe other field, then you
can take this lightly. But if you really want to become a network engineer or network security engineer, then you must
know these topics very very very well. Okay.
Okay. So coming back to the configuration.
Okay. So we have given the basic commands right. So EGRP basic overview
also got that what is routing dynamic routing. So we are learning EIGRP and we
are running how we can connect our offices. Now you consider the four routers here. We have the same topology
today what we are doing today.
Okay. This topology means Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata like these are four cities in India and we are going to
configure we are going to configure all of the devices. Okay, very very simple.
Let's start with the last uh maybe router two. Router one I'll show you also router two sayur. So router two how
many networks I have tell me. So we have to say router AGP. Okay then just give any as number. So
now you must be thinking every company has AS number. Okay, that is used in BGP. But the EGRP of AS number do not
matter. So if but yes if you are giving here one number you have to use all four
routers one. If you give here 10 then you have to make sure all routers are in
EGRP 10. So it is a number which go in every packet. Okay, go in every packet
means that when I send you information because I told you that routers share
information with the packet. So when I share my packet with router 2, I put my
as number 10 and when I say I'm as 10
then only router 2 will accept the packet. If router 2 is not having as
number 10, the router will reject the packet because the router should have
the same AS number. Okay. So that's why but it this is not mandatory that you
use the same AS number what you get from ISP. Okay.
So AS of because EGRP is internal protocol. Internal protocol means that
you do not run EGRP with ISP. Okay. With any company? No. Because if you have
ISP, if you have any uh like ISP maybe like
let's say uh AEL in India. Okay. So you will not run you will not run EGRP with
ATL. There we only use one protocol that is BGP.
Okay. Or maybe you can use default routing. But here we will not we will
not uh use EGRP. Okay. So I hope you understand
H. Uh so let's make this lab more engaging.
So what we can do here? I'll go to R2. Okay. Let's complete this
first. Okay. So let's uh go to router ARP 10. So remember AS number should be same on all the routers. Okay. AS
number. Every company is assigned AS number when you use BGP. But when you
talk about EGRPS number, it is like your uh like consider it is like a number
which should be unique in all four routers. Okay. Unique means same in all the routers. Okay. But it should be one
number like EGRP 10. Okay. One. Okay. So it is like 1 between 1 to 65,
535. You can use any number but all router in your company you should use the same number. Okay. So router HRP 10
I'm using. Okay. And after that you just have to tell me how many networks I have.
Networks. What network should I have? What networks I have? 192 16. Just type
the network ID. I have 12.0. very good and I have 192 16824.0 zero very simple
and just have to say no auto summary what is this no auto summary this means
if you have any subnet suppose if this is 24 then it will go by default as 24
okay so if I change this to 128 maybe / 25 okay so if I change this to /25
so by default auto summary is on by default auto summary is on. Okay. So,
auto summary. What is auto summary? If it is /25, it will automatically make this by
default. And by default, what is this? Class C and class C by default subnet
mask is 24. So, if you have /25 and if you have auto summary on the /25
will as a auto summary will go as what? /24
which is not good thing right for my company but right now if subnetting is
not in your company then it will not create any issue but if you have any
network with you have divided the network with subnetting and auto summary will make your 254
auto summary will make your/26 also as a 24 so it means auto summary just combine
all the network automatically auto summarization combine all the networks together that's why all 25 26 will
become 24 but here what I'm doing if you want to support submaring if you have /
25 let's say this is 25 okay so just for practice you can change
this to 25 if you want okay and if I change here go to my loop back three
150 uh interface loop Track uh three I think 012 012 3 yeah 3 IP address 192
168 3.1 255 255 255 128 so now when I'm sharing
my networks with the I'll show you okay but right now uh I have done only router
two let's do now not remember I have not uh given the not a summary yet I'll tell
you why we give okay so now we go to R1 R1 R1 has many networks right R1 R1 has
12.0 right R1 has 13.0 and we also have loop back then we can
type all the loop backs 192 1680.0 okay
then we have 1.0 we have 2.0
we have 3.0 zero. Okay. And by default auto summary is on. Right. So if I go
here on R1
and go to config and paste this router EGRP. So you can see I have not given
the not a summary. I just added my all networks and I go to router two which is
my another router. Router 2 CA configure or router 2 is just basic
two three lines enable make sure you copy paste in the config
mode. Okay. So now we have done EGRP and you can see automatically the new
neighborhip came up. There is a message we became the neighbor and automatically
what will happen within just a fraction of seconds router one share all networks
with router two and router two share all networks with router one and this is because of EGRP update packet so how
they are sharing with each other all these networks how they are sharing
okay so that is going and let's see router two got all the packet all the
subnets or Not because what is routing protocol? Sharing of routing
information. So this these all networks are my routing information. I'll share with router two. Okay. Let's see if
router two got the show ip route.
So now you can see guys we are getting with the d eagp because d stand for dual
algorithm. Okay. So the D stand for D
represents the dual algorithm which we will be
discussing used by EGRP
that's why there is a symbol of D okay because that E symbol because E
stand like C means connected static is S RIP is R then why AGRP is not E because
There was a protocol very very old days uh EGP which is now replaced by BGP. So
E symbol is taken by some protocol EGP which is not used nowadays.
That's why EGRP has a symbol D. So the D stand for dual algorithm. Okay. Which is
like uh algorithm which prevents the loop prevention in ERP. We'll discuss
about dual algorithm. Okay. But D means ERP. So now what you see this network
also I'm getting from EGRP 0 also one also two also but three is
coming from /24 because what is happening in the router one very important command what I'm
showing you show ip protocols so here you see that I'm running ap 10
and here there is a thing called automatic address summarization is in effect autom Automatic network
summarization effect may here. If automatic summarization is in effect,
what will happen? 3.0 will go as a /24. But if I go to R1 and say again router
EGRP 10 just give no summary after the commands also or before whatever your
choice. But I have disabled the summary. And now if I check show ip protocols now
you can see automatic network summarization is not in effect. Now not
in effect means router 2 will get/25.
We got it 25. Yes that's important. So make sure
router 2 is not sending any network which is /25.
So it is your choice you want to configure here or not. But what I recommend if you disable not a summary
auto summary then it is better to configure this everywhere. Okay. Not a
summary give all in all the routers. Make a habit so that you do not miss the
important subnets because if you give / 24 25 it will go 24 but if not a summary
is given then it will go as it is whatever it is. Okay. So if it is /25,
it will go as a /25. So that's why it's better to use no auto summary instead
auto summary. Auto summary is not required because that is by default. So I'm writing here so that I can add no
further. Okay. Very simple. Now router four is easy. Router one, router two connected.
Now router three. Very simple. We go to router AGRP 10 network 192 16813.0
and then we have 34.0.
Okay. No auto summary.
Okay. And then we have router 4. Here we have three networks. Router EGRP
10 network 192 168 24.0
network 192 168 34.0 0 no auto summary.
Okay. And there is a loop back also 4 44. So network 44 44 4 0 that's it.
Okay. So this is uh router 3.
Okay. I'm checking our chat messages. Just hold on. after this config
easy as number confused
AS number is just a basic number that all routers should have the same number that's it okay don't get confused about
AS number BGP actual AS number okay BGP will actually
make you understand what is exactly AS number here in ERP as number consider It
is just a unique number. Okay. So,
okay. So, we have done all neighborhips came up. All the best thing about EGRP.
EGRP believes in neighborhip. Even we humans are not good at neighbors. Okay.
But routers are very good at neighbors. They they keep discussing with each
other. They keep helping with each other. Yes, this is EGRP basic classic mode.
Yeah, Shabba's unique number means any one number. Okay, unique. Uh I think
that is contradicting my statement. So very simple if we use AGRP all should
have the same number. That's what I'm saying. S sharing information
sharing information Huh? What I'm trying to say that we have this
network that is going to router 2. Router two is sharing with router 4. Router four is sharing with router
three. What will happen? Now consider this is your dilly office sales team.
Okay. So now consider if you want to take more example what we can do here.
Let's say what you if you want more uh real time
how to copy paste in community edition in my configuration commands. Narana you're talking about our labs or your
labs sir please repeat auto summary concept
MKkesh very simple.
Yes. Uh Zahida if we give no auto summary then all your subnets will go as
it is. If it is 24 25 it will go as 25.
Okay. If you do not give note a summary 25 will also become 24 which will create
problem. Okay. Why we are creating loop back?
Because I am focused on my topic that is EGRP. Because if I create a big LAN
network then VLANs you will be all confused about EIGRP right? So but yes
if you feel like you want to do something like that. So basically in packet tracer what you can do let me
tell you.
Okay. So if you want extra practice what I recommend you you take four routers
okay like one 2 3 four okay you connect all of them together consider these are
your di Mumbai Chennai Kolkata
okay so now What loop backs I created here? R1, R2, R3, R4.
Let's say this is R1 Delhi. Okay, you can give any name.
This is like R2, this is R3, this is R4, Mumbai or Chennai. Okay, so now this is
the network we have in the topology. So now instead of loop back if you are
confused about loop back then what I recommend you you can take a multi-layer
switch here okay multilayer okay and if you have any cable problem
just go to router shut down the router add the slot NM2F
network module two fast Ethernet two extra Ethernet ports turn on okay and
Here you can do the same thing here between multi-layer switches. You can
have multiple departments like maybe sales, marketing, okay, admin, whatever,
right? So you can connect all your switches with the multi-layer switch,
right? So this is likely LAN network.
Okay? So maybe you have a lot of department. These are your sales team
members. Okay. So this is your sales uh laptops.
Okay. Like sales one, sales 2, sales 3, sales four.
Okay. So you have the similar different department maybe like marketing has
multiple guys in different different floor. Okay. So maybe this is your marketing one, marketing
two, marketing three, marketing four. Okay. So these guys are actually
connected to these devices. Maybe this is our ground floor switch.
Okay. So this is maybe your first floor. First floor sales guys also sitting. Marketing guys are also this is our
second floor. This is our maybe third floor or basement whatever server room
which be. So now you understand that sales marketing sales
and then you have another department accounts
accounts one accounts two accounts three accounts four.
Okay. And then there is a server room also. We have some servers. Okay. But I
think server we will keep in one floor only. But still you can consider on the ground floor we have all server room and
uh all devices are on the ground floor also one server in third floor maybe
let's say it's a CCTV camera server something like that. Okay. So now consider all these VLANs are in the
subnet. Sales department you have given 1.0 marketing you have given 2.0 0 accounts
department you have given 3.0 and server department you have given 4.0 zero. Are
you getting my point? So now I'm not teaching you AGRP. I'm showing you how to build a LAN network, how to configure
VLANs, inter VLAN. Then we talk about because EGRP is only between routers. So
that's why we do not want to waste time here building the LAN, VLANs concept.
Let's focus on EGRP. Clear? Now what is loop back?
Yes. Yes, if you want you already have EL
knowledge, please go and create it. Okay, I'm not showing you I'm not
telling you to stop your knowledge. If you have EGRP knowledge, we can configure on multi-layer switch also.
Okay, we can if you get any problem, please ask me. I'll help you. But try to
build your own labs also. I'm not saying just do our labs. We give you labs, you
cover the basic knowledge, then you can try your labs also. Then only you will learn and troubleshoot the things
properly. Okay, already my lab is already done. Now I'm just showing you that if you are on
router 4, can I ping my sales department? I go to router 4 and I ping
my sales IP 0.1. Right? So ping 192
1680.1. Yes, I'm able to ping. Why? Because all these networks are coming in my router
as EGRP route. You can see that Z to go to this department which is my Dilli
sales department. I have two path. One from 34.3,
one from 3 means router 3 and one from 24.2 which is router 2. So a router 3
say a router two. The same way if I want to go to
marketing department, admin department or maybe server department, I have
multiple paths because to go from router 4 to the departments of router one, you
have multiple paths. One is this way and one is go from this path. So you
have one path from router two to router one, one path from router 3 to router one. and EGRP is considering both path
are good both paths are good that's why it is
load sharing so you can see whenever you see a path with these two lines it means
it is called load balance load balancing load balance or load sharing is better
thing okay and how we can test here if load balancing is actually happening you
can say uh trace root and then you type the IP address of that network
and just type numeric for fast trace route. If you do not type numeric the
trace route will be very slow. So you can see when you say 34.3 again you see
your IP 34.3 again you see your IP is load balance.
If I try see 1.1 so one IP in the hop you will see again
34.3 here also you see 34.3 so first packet here second is going here third
is again going to 34.3 so the first packet goes to this router 3 second to
the router two again the third packet going this is how we can test if it is the load balancing going on or not
okay so be load balance 4. Okay. Load balancing is going on. Okay. So every
time you can check like that. Okay. So now consider when you complete
their lab here in Chennai also you have a land department. Okay. Maybe you have
just one department and that is maybe your server room or maybe something like
and there is a server 444. Okay. And uh you connected your router
Chennai with this. Okay. I hope you understand right. So what is
your goal that this server should be able to ping all your departments. Okay. But the main concept is EGRP here that
how my all four LAN networks are going to
Mumbai. How these Mumbai networks are sharing with Chennai. How Chennai is
sharing back to Bangalore. Okay. So basically the language between routers
is called routing protocol. This is what is happening here right now. So all the routers are sharing information with
each other. This is what I shown you. After that if I again go to router one and run the command
show ip protocols. So let's see what more information we have. Okay. So let's
say uh there is a ad value internal 90
external 170. Okay. So there is a value. So what
is AD value? Administrative distance. Administrative
distance. Okay. So this is like trust worthiness of a routing table,
right? Trustworthiness of a routing table. Okay. Like uh EGRP has a 80 value
7 90 and for external route is 170. OPF
has 110. So tell me 90 is better or 110 is better. So the lower the value the
higher the trust. The lower the value like the value the higher the trust.
Okay. To value come better. Okay. The lower the number higher the trust. Like
if you talk about RIP 120. So tell me if you configure OPF also RIP also which
protocol will be active in the routers by default?
EGRP because EGRP has the lowest number. Okay. So, AD values are trustworthiness
of a routing table.
Okay. And these are specific to different different companies. Okay.
Because if you go and check in uh different brand like maybe in Juniper it
is a different. Okay. like uh let me add the big chart here. You can see if you
talk about EGRP that is only in the Cisco because only Cisco device support
EGRP and EAGRP has a internal 90 external 170 and there is a summary
which we call five also but focus on 90 more. Okay, because mostly all the
routing protocols are internal. Okay. And whenever you show see all the
updates you are getting is 90. You can see 90 because all these are your
internal EGRP routes. Okay. When you learn redistribution then I'll tell you
what is 170. Okay. Now when it comes to like RIP okay which is another protocol
like we have 120 in the Cisco. Juniper has 100 and HP has 100 and Huawei also
has a 100 number. Like when we talk about OSP of 110 in Cisco and Juniper
takes internal 10 and external 150 and HP and Huawei also has a number 10. Like
when we talk about BGP we have 20 and 200 in Juniper it is 170. So now EGRP
170 in Cisco 170 is allocated to EAGRP but in Juniper BGP allocated 170. So
don't get confused. Every protocol, every company has a different different
parameters as we are learning Cisco. That's why we can say EGRP has a ADW 90
and RIP has 120 and OPF has 110. So when you talk about Cisco, who is going to
win the election? EGRP. Okay. like uh and when it comes to Juniper
okay between RIP and between OPF interal OPF is going to win the election okay
when it comes to HP and Huawei 100 is RIP and OPF is 10 so OPF is always going
to win because everywhere every protocol company every manufacturer know OPF is
better than RIP that's why in every company OPF number is lower than other brands okay are you getting my point and
and OPF is even uh considered better than ISIS. There is ISS protocol which
is a service provider protocol, intermediate system to intermediate system. If you learn very well OPF, ISIS
will be piece of cake for you. Okay? Like it is going to be very easy to learn ISIS also. So they so we have just
a five number difference 110 and 115 and if you configure both OPF is going to
win the election but again in Cisco EGRP is going to beat everyone. EGRP is Cisco
protocol and EGRP has the best administrative distance in Cisco. But if
you have static route which is like the best which is one in the Cisco Juniper
consider five or static route HP is one Huawei 60
Huawei 60. Okay. But Cisco has a
one. Okay. So Cisco say manual configuration is always better. So if you have as a
network engineer if you configure static route then static route will be
considered. Okay static route example
if I go to the topology again and 44 network I have added in the EGRP. But if
I go to R1. Yeah, let's go to R1. And instead of you
can see 44 I'm getting from router 3 and router 2. But what I'll do, I add a
static route for the same. Okay. And I'm saying I'm getting from 13.3.
So now tell me if I add this entry do you think the
EGRP route will be visible here in the routing table?
No because the static route has a ad value one and EGRP has a value 90. So
let's add. So once I add so what will happen from the routing table that EGRP
root is gone and static route added. And once I remove the static route again
because I remove the static route so the second best path will come and visible
in the routing table again. Can you see that? Yes.
How can I connect a router in Delhi to a router in Mumbai using AGRP? Do I need a physical cable? Yes. If all these cables
what we are using here cable these this connectivity is given by ISP
but this is not internet connection these are private connections or maybe you can say these are your MS
connection. So what is MLS that you can connect to all your offices together
okay but right now let's focus how routing protocol work once you
understand then we can talk about MS okay so MSK like connection between your
all branch offices together it's like a private links MS is a technology used by
ISP to give you private links
Sanjie let me if different vendor devices are connected what we'll have then OPF you can use Sanjieve
Cisco will show you 1 1 0 right and
Juniper router will for the same route will show you 10 number
please tell about internal external when a different protocol
Okay. So right now consider when you learn EAGRP then you learn OPF. When how
EAGRP will talk to OPF for EGRP OPF roots are external and for OPF EGRP
roots are external. EGRP ARP roots are internal. OPF OPF roots are internal.
Different protocol roots. Different protocol roots are
considered external roots. Clear?
Yes. Habi by forwarding detection. BFD I think you
are asking. BFD is a different concept. Uh again it's a add-on. If you want to
do want to connect R1 and R4 with the uh R2 router using AGRP want to connect R1
and R4. Yes. Yes. R1 come to know from R4.
R1 come to know about R4 from R2 only. R2 is because I remember see there are
three tables. No no without R2 is not possible. We have to either go see in AGRP there are
three tables.
So understand the logic guys. This is the most important thing here in EGRP
there are three tables. How many? Three.
Okay. So EGRP sub that EGRP makes the first table neighbor. Okay, like R1 will
go and how many neighbors we have directly connected R2 and R3. So R1 will
create a table. Show ip neighbor is the command that okay 13.3 router 3 and
router 2 are my neighbors. Yes or no? Right? So R1 is building a neighbor
table first. Right? You can see this is my neighbor. R1 is saying R2 and R3
both are my neighbors because they are also in the same AS number. First we
built what? Neighbor table, right? We have built the
neighbor table. After that when all routers have neighbors, all neighbor
share their information. Okay, like their roots, everything.
Okay, all the neighbors are going to share their networks. These networks I
will share with router two. Router two will share 24 with me. Router one will
share these networks with router 3. Router 3 will share 34 to me. Right? So
basically all the routers are sharing all the networks all the networks and
building a table that is called a topology table.
Which table? That whatever networks network all the networks of my network
I'm going to store in the table called topology table. Okay. Topology means
first I will make neighbor table. All neighbors share information with each other. All that information I'll store
in the topology table. Then we check okay to go to this path. How many
successor we have? Successor means that best path. So now for this path I have
two best paths. For this path I have only one best path. For this path I have
only one best path. But there are networks where we have two paths also. Like
Okay. Okay. To go to this destination we have
two paths and one path one best path is called successor. If you have two best
path we are called to successor. And for other networks we have only one successor one successor everywhere.
Okay. And this value there is a FD value which we have to understand. Okay. It is
like a cost you can consider in EGRP. Okay. So this is all theory we will go
inside but right now you understand that okay we got the update okay we are
building now which table topology that whatever information I'm getting from
anywhere anywhere even I am getting hundreds of roots I will store all that
information in my which table eagp table okay I'll not make I'll not just add
best information I will add even my average like even it is not best I'll
store in the topology I'll store my best paths in the routing table okay so first
I make which table neighbor table then I make my
job table topology table
okay so then after that I'll make I'll choose the best path okay now I know I
have one best path or two. Now it has written two best paths. So both the
paths will be going in the routing table. So when I say show ip route so
you can see to go to four network I have both both my path best because both are
coming from the same direction same bandwidth. Okay but if you do not want one path to be good you can decrease the
bandwidth you can do like you can do some tweaks. Okay. But right now I'm not doing because it's a basic uh class. So
not going in depth right now person.
Okay. So 4.4.4.0. So this is like uh I build my neighbor
table. Then I forward information to my topology table. Then I forward all my
information to the best table in the routers that is routing table. Okay. So
you can see after that I'll be choosing the routing table. So with the help of neighbor I build my
vegetable topology. Here neighbor will only give me information. Okay. From how
many minutes I am up from how many minutes we are connected 25 minutes back
we are got connected. Okay. So this is smooth round trip timer SRT. So which
means when I'm sending you packet the same update or like acknowledgement I'm
getting in how much seconds milliseconds may that whenever I send you some message I get my revert in this 327
milliseconds approx srtt so simple when I forward you packet I
get my packet back in how much seconds or acknowledgement bit RTO
retransmission uh uh unit or something RTO uh that if anybody
not replying okay I'm going to retransmit the packet again in how many seconds and we'll discuss RTO this Q
count this sequence number okay so when you go deep dive we will understand okay
but right now you focus h is like nothing just a number header or uh h is
stand for just a number like 0 1 excel
sheet is a number it is just a H means uh header or something address which is
the neighbor address interface from where my neighbor is connected on which cable or which link hold down timer. So
this is like your hold down timer is only 15 second.
So in routers in EGRP there is a concept
what I'll tell you after the break.
Okay. EGRP has a concept of hello packets. We
will discuss after the break.
Hello. Hello.
Easy. Hello. Hello.
Yes, sir. Yes sir. Yes sir. Easy lamb. Yes sir.
Yes sir. Yes sir.
Yes sir. Yes sir. Easy l. Yes sir.
Yes sir. Yes sir. Labs are always easy.
Okay. So
by camera on
That's it. Annual function. Okay.
Okay. Let's start.
Okay. So question any doubts till now
topics related sir I think uh till now we have done basic only
uh topology table Rafi we'll discuss more in detail about FDR everything
can we create two different EGRP in this lab near n first uh you learn eagp
and uh then we will learn one topic redistribution. Okay. When two different
as you want to talk to each other then you have to do redistribution. Okay. So once you know the redistribution topic
then you can run two different as number also in EGRP.
E ARP need to run MS protocols. No need. MS is a service provider technology
customer. Okay. So when you are a company like Nestle okay maybe you're working with
the Patanjali whatever okay whatever brand you live or wherever you working
so as is normal company we will not run MS we will only run routing protocols
like EGRP OPF or if I want to connect with ISP what maximum protocol I will
run BGP okay but I will not run MS in my organization MS I will only run If I am
ISP or when I'm MSP, managed service provider,
the companies who provide connections, they use MLS kind of technologies in
their network. Mostly M simple MS is a service provider VPN. Clear?
And customer use which IVPN? IPSec, DMVPN, G tunnel. Okay. So there are
customer based VPNs and there are service provider VPN. Customer VPN are
IPSec, DMVPN, G tunnel and service provider VPN are MLS, VLS.
Okay. And layer 2VPN, layer 3VPN. There are others also,
right? S 23rd classuesday.
Mhm.
Yeah, I'll try. I'll check if I don't have any other schedule. I'll definitely
go for that. Let's do daily class seven days a week.
No
because you people get a lot of time to revise your topics again and again.
Okay. Okay. So, but yeah, I can take class. Uh I'll put a poll. Okay. If 80%
people are saying yes, uh let's have a class, we will definitely have. Okay. Let's start the class again.
Okay. So, let's talk about some basic uh theory now. Okay. So, EGRP.
Okay. So, first of all, EAGRP stand for enhanced interior gateway routing
protocol. Okay. Make sure you remember the full form. Okay.
Okay. So, EGRP earlier was IGRP which is interior
gateway protocol. But now it is called enhanced interior gateway protocol.
Okay. It is made by Cisco. Okay. Who made this protocol? Made by Cisco. But
it is open standard. Okay. Why AGRP is open standard? Then why companies are
not using it? because EIGRP made open standard in 2013 approx. Okay, if you go
to Wikipedia, u I think they have a information needed
standard standard. Uh
yeah, Cisco has stated that ERP is open standard but they leave out several core
details in RFC which makes interpability hard to set up between different vendors when the protocol is used.
Yeah. So you can see there. So Cisco made it open standard but there are some
details what Cisco has not shared and due to this problem companies other
companies are not able to set up the EGRP in their routers. Okay. And as of
2022 today is 2024 but Cisco has a support in FRR routing like if anybody
wants to run EGRP then there is operating system Linux operating system
which is FRR routing. Okay. It's a Linux machine. If you want to run like OPF,
BGP, it's like a virtual router, okay, which is FRR routing. Okay, uh nobody is
using in the production networks. I I'm sure not too much. Okay, very rare. But
it's like a software based router. But only that FR routing support ERP
other than that nobody is supporting. Okay. So that's the logic and EGRP is
very simple basic configuration you have seen this is what we call EGRP classic
mode and all the configuration now I copy paste in your notes
uh whatever please make sure you do this lab whether on packet tracer whether on the labs okay uh
now oh no no no huh coming back to the theory part
so AGR RP uses update packets to exchange the information. Okay. So there
are some packets what are called update packets to exchange the routing information. Okay. So if anybody ask you
okay tell me how EGRP share information with each other then the answer is update packets. EGRP uses algorithm I
told you dual algorithm which stand for diffusing update algorithm. diffusing
update algorithm EGRP created so that it can support different
protocols like IP, IPX, Apple talk but IPX and Apple talk protocols are not
used nowadays. So only we use IP but this is the only protocol which support
multi- vend multi-protocols like IP, IPX, Apple talk no other
companies can support that technology. So that was like some companies who are
using Apple talk maybe Cisco has used a lot of uh Cisco routers only that time
support multi-rotocols okay so now as I mentioned IGP EGRP OPF
ISIS they these protocol work inside the company and BGP is the only protocol
which work outside the company eagrp runs inside the company. Okay.
So now in EAGRP there are six important things what Cisco or EGRP is giving the
U like Cisco route uh EGRP has partial updates. What is partial
like whenever there is a change then only I will be sharing the update. It's not that because in RIP protocol if you
know little bit of RIP even if you don't know don't worry about that it's not a good protocol. So remember in RIP
after every 30 secondond router send full routing tables just imagine if you
have 20 plus router like you have like more like four routers. So do you think
this is good that every 30 secondond you share all your routing updates with each
other? What is this wastage of bandwidth? I'm sharing after every 30
secondond I'm sharing my complete routing table with each other and that is like wastage of bandwidth. Right?
Router brain is continuously in use. That is called control plane. Router
brains are called control plane and router forward data with which plane?
Data plane. Okay. The control plane is like the brain where all routing
protocol work like EGRP, RIP all these things work on the control
plane. Okay. So the customer traffic suppose you are watching movie or whatever. So that information is going
on in which plane data plane. Okay. like uh traffic okay or customer or user
traffic. So that is going with the data plane simple right all your information
because if you are sitting here okay if you are sitting somewhere here okay and
if you are accessing this server this is the server and you are somewhere here okay and if you go from this computer to
the server routers are also processing your traffic whether you are watching YouTube whatever right somehow the
traffic links are used so that all traffic is used going with the data plane
But all your brain which is used like Cisco has like four routers consider in
this topology. So all four brains are working on EIGRP RIP protocols. Whenever
these protocols talk they talk with the control plane their brain of routers.
Okay. So now if you keep sending messages after every 30 seconds this is not good. But in EAGRP we have partial
updates means whenever there is a requirement then only I will share update.
This is called partial updates. VLSM support it means it supports subnating
variable length subnet mask. Your subnetting support
it support data link protocol support. Okay. Data link protocol support uh kind
of like u data link protocol. example
uh I think uh it is trying to explain it is compatible with the layer
2 technologies I think data link protocol I have to check that I'll get back to you on this
why this line is highlighted okay uh I'll get back to you on this okay I'll
put it on WhatsApp audio message what is that exactly
faster conversion Faster convergence m what is faster convergence that if I'm going from this
side and the link broke okay what happen the link of between
router two router three fail automatically what will happen I will shift my traffic I will shift my traffic
from where I will shift my traffic to router one to router three router four
it is like you are going to market this is the market this is your home. If you
go from this path, the market you are not able to go to the market but you go
to your home and take the another path. So in how much time you are moving the
traffic from your bad link to right link that is convergence. Okay. Like when
whenever there is a link down or anything happens in how much time you
shift your traffic to another best link that is called convergence and EGRP is
very fast in convergence. If you have any bad links okay or any link is down
okay maybe any problem in the links automatically AGRP shift to another path
very soon. It has a metric value 32 or 64bit like how it calculate the path
that is called metric which we will understand and EGRP support IPv4 also
IPv6 also. Okay.
Now EGRP as I mentioned it is called combination of link state and distance
vector because that's why if I show you sometimes it is called hybrid. Why? Because it has the properties of RIP
also distance vector and it has some concept of link state. Okay. So what is
distance vector? They are dependent on their neighbors. What is distance vector? Like RIP protocol work on
distance vector algorithm. Like after 30 second we these are called preordic
updates that after 30 secondond I will send my complete routing table. send
routing table after every 30 seconds. So this is called periodic that there is a
time after 30 seconds every every router will send routing table. Okay. And link
state is partial triggered updates whenever there is a change. Okay. Whenever
Okay. So whenever there is a change then only
then only I will forward or then only router forward the updates. So these are
called partial triggered updates. Whenever there is a required then only the updates will go rest that routers
will not use their brains. But here we have bounded the router that hey router
please send routing table after every 30 secondond and use your brain which means
consume your resources consume your RAM okay RAM Rome everything in the router
right because brain uses resources to run right
so now in distance vector router knows what the neighbor knows okay like if router one knows about RA 4 with the
help of R2 and R3 because when you go to R1 okay even in the router one if I show
you that if I want to go to R4 R4 loop back 444
show ip route 4444 so you can see I can go to 444 I have
two path one is 13.3 one is 12.2 two. Okay.
Yeah. So, I'm showing you that. Okay. I'm going from 13.3 and I'm going from
12.2. Yes. Router one is going from router to router 3.
Okay. But it is not telling you that okay R4 IP is 24.4.
So you cannot see any 24.4 here. You see only the neighbor IPS because router
EGRP is a distance vector little bit. Why? Because it is whole depend on the
neighbors. What my neighbor knows? I know that information. Okay. So router 4
is giving to router two. You can see router two routing table.
Enable show ip route. So 444 I'm getting from four router
right. Router four is sharing with router two. Now router two is sharing with the router one. This is how the
thing works in distance vector. Router neighbors. Router knows about what the
neighbor knows. But link state is different. Router knows everything about the topology like OPF knows everything
because it create a table called database table. But in EGRP we do not
have the database table. We have a topology but that topology table also we
are building because of neighbors. Neighbors see topology table neighbors
are helping me to build the topology table and that topology table will have
all the information what neighbors are sharing with me and this concept is called routing by rumor. Routing by
rumor is a concept. Times interviewer can ask you okay tell me what is routing by rumor concept. So simply say router
knows what the neighbor knows is called routing by rum rumor. Routing by rumor.
Okay. So I remember this somebody asked me this question in one of the interview I have given in the past. Okay. Tell me
what is routing by rumor. So this means when the router depends on their neighbors that concept is called known
as routing by rumor. Okay. But OPF is very good because it has full knowledge
because it creates a big database table. Database table.
If I keep lo big database table I'm going to utilize my brain CPU right so
this is why C link state has little bit CPU intensive okay but in link state
there is a concept of hello packets after every 5 seconds I will send my
hello to you you say hello to me I say hello to my neighbor means all router
share hello packets with each And hello packet is very very small packet. It is not a big packet like
sending routing table. Hello packet is very small packet which is only what is
the purpose? Just to make sure that we are alive. We are not losing our
neighborhip. Because if I lose your neighborhip if I disconnect the link
from here that I should get instant information. Okay, this link is down because if this link is down, the router
will not send you hello. And if router will not send you hello, I will consider that neighbor is down. And when I
consider this neighbor is down, I inform all my routers to link down. If the link
goes down, router immediately come to know my link is down because the other
side link is down. So my link is also down and instantly report to other routers and this is going with the
update packet. This is called partial update also what we were talking about here.
Okay clear? See I try to go in detail so that you
get the proper knowledge you understand the technicalities of the book. Even if
you read Cisco books after my classes you will understand very easily. Okay.
So that's what I'm trying to uh clear. Okay.
So this is the same concept what we learned. First we create the neighbor table then we create the topology table.
Then we create the global routing table. Okay. Now you can start checking like what is the fast convergence? A router
that I have added some theory. A router that is running EGRP maintain routing information that is received from its
neighbor in the topology table so that it quickly adapt to alternate routes. In any case, if one primary link goes down
automatically go to the backup route that's called a fast convergence very fast it go to the backup path. Partial
updates like we do not send the fixed time updates. We share updates whenever
there is a requirement. Okay. Now, EGRP has subnetting support. It has
a metric also which we will discuss in the FDA class. We have a subnetting support also like which is called VLSM.
And there is a problem if you do not have VLSM support. Yeah. Problem. The
problem is called discontigious networks. What is discontigious network?
It can be interview question. What is simple question? What is discontigious network? Tell me. So when a network is
divided into two parts and they are at different different location, they are called discontigious networks.
Huh. So they
okay so now you can see I have 10 network here on the router zero I have
router one also 10 network but they are subminated. If a router do not support auto uh what
we call sum uh VLSM EGRP is on running auto summary. What will happen if I
share 10 with the router one? Router will go this network will go as 10 0 0.
By default it is /8. Okay. It is coming from EGRP. EGRP has
AD value 90. Right. And now 10 network is also directly
connected to me which is zero D A value. So tell me which path you will prefer.
You will prefer the AD value zero which is best. 0 is the best right and eagp is
90. So now tell me if this computer wants to go to 10 0 0 10112 something
here. If this computer 10 this computer wants to go to this
machine which is 10 112 what will happen? Router will not forward packet.
Router will forward the packet to this side because both networks are same. So,
EAGRP will not add this EGRP entry in the routing table because it has a high
AD value because we divided our network in two directions the same network with
the subnetting. But if you want to support subnetting then we have to use no auto summary EIGRP. Okay. Else you
will not able to forward your packets. I don't know if I have created any uh
video in the past for discontigious network.
Okay, I have to check that.
But you guys can try what you can do like uh
uh static routing.
Okay. So just hold on. Yeah. Okay. So now see this topology. I'm not creating any new topology. Just
understand these are three routers. Okay, I'm just showing you this contiguous network concept.
So what I'll be doing here? Here we have 10 01. So I divide this network into
like uh 10 011/24.
So now this is a different network and 102.1
which is a different network. Right? So I just changed this design and I think
uh the basic IPs are already configured. I'm not doing any changes. Just we will
configure EGRP. Okay. So just I have to change this
network. Okay. So
you just reconfigure the design. Now this time this is / 24. Okay.
And I think we have added some static routings and all. Yes, you can see lot of static routes. So uh what we can do
here we can remove that. So go to show running and uh just give no commands.
I'll give you this lab for testing if you want. Okay. So just remove all the static
routes because we have to configure EGRP and if you do not remove then EGRP roots
will not show you because static has better value right
concept
and this is what you must do always. Okay.
concept whenever you want to learn any concept try to think in a lab okay that
okay let's do some fast convergence let's test the discontigious network let's
test the whatever right whatever topic
concept practical purpose okay
so when you understand the concept theory is not required boss, you know everything then, right? Theory, if you
know the concepts, you can write your own books. Simple as that. You do not have to go and check the books.
But books are also good. You try to understand the concept, do lab, go back,
okay, and try to understand the concept again and again.
This is what I did.
root.
Okay. So, I'm just clearing this topology and you you are actually learning today
a new thing, right? If I have to remove static routing. Okay. And remember this
network I have to change in interface GIG 0000
IP address 10.0.2.1 2.1 this is a different network now
right so now let's configure EGRP okay everywhere
so let's go to router EGRP 10 network 17216
1.1 uh 0 I think this is class B and if you confused we can check show
ip in route yeah they go yeah you class B So we have to advertise
that only router EAGP let's you can see 1 to 65,000 you can
take let's say 6 500 this time we will use a different number network 170 to
160 0 network 10
whenever you get any problem just check your routing table and the C the C
numbers just add in the routing table. Okay. So the C means directly connected
add as a network command and there is a 200 network also which is my van. This
link also have to add then only I will make the neighbor with other router.
Okay. No auto summary I'm not giving here. Okay. So 200 why we are giving this because when I activate EGRP on
this link when the this router also activate EGRP on this link then only I
will share information. Okay. So that's why so this is the second router where
uh again go and say show ip route connected. So whatever C you see C
networks directly connected networks you go EGRP 500 add all this very simple
just add as a network commanding
now the practical gets more easy it means I'm this is what we call
advertising advertising my networks So when you read some books and all it is is written okay please go to EGRP and
advertise these network advertise means add your information in the EGRP and
forward to other routers that's called advertise ads advertisement okay that we are
sharing with the world we are sharing with other routers advertising
Okay. So, router C. So, this way show ip
show ip route connected connected because else it will show you this uh
local links means the IP configured. So, router EIGRP 500 network 10.0 0.2.0
network 205.1.1.0. Okay. So now you can see neighborhip is
up everything is okay and uh uh these computers just have to configure
uh 10 something IP let's say 10022
and 102.1 is my gateway. Okay. So and here there is a device 1001.2
to let's say OCP
1011. Okay. So now let's try to ping
uh from this computer. Okay. First I'm showing you that can I able to ping 172
and there is also 172 uh 20. It says 20. It says 16. There is
no problem. Okay. So, let's ping from this computer to this computer 16.1.2.
Okay. I go to the first 172 and ping the first device in my topology 1.2. So
hopefully we will get a ping because EGRP is running right. You can
see packets are going very well because there is this is 170 to 20 and this is
170 to 16 but 10 network I'm getting from left side and that same 10 network
I'm getting from the right side. So it means the router B should be confused
that where should I forward my packet.
Okay, this is uh coming 24 I think.
Let me check. Show IP protocols
automatic is not in effect. Not a summary.
You can check show running and uh
uh okay. But I think this is the latest router or
something which is by default it is enabled now.
Yes, you can see guys this is the 15.5 version. Okay. In the latest version of
Cisco no auto summary is enabled. It means I
have to go to router AGRP and say auto summary. So that it will not support subnetting. But now it is not required.
Not a summary because in latest router not a summary is enabled in old routers auto summary
is enabled. Okay. So nowadays the devices are getting smarter. So that
Cisco command alli because even they know it's a good command but I'm showing
you what will be the problem if you enable auto summary.
Okay. Okay. So what will happen if you have auto summary? So you can see
that 10 network is coming from 2005.1.2
and which is best path uh this side because one router away now
and this is also one router away. So 10
which is coming from here. So it means if I want to ping from this computer to
100.12 ping 100.12
I'm not able to ping you can see why because all packets are
going in the right direction. You go to simulation mode.
Okay go to simulation mode and try to create a packet again. You can see
packet is all going in the right direction. Why it is not going in the left?
Because router is understanding 10 network I'm getting from the right side.
Okay. Because both are coming as /8 but this is like one router away. You can
see one router then here it is like directly connected to this network.
This is also directly connected.
Okay. So this is like uh yeah so we have added here fa0 cable this side we have
gig and gig here we have both 1 Gbps and I think we have one and if I add this in
gig port maybe then it will load balance maybe I'm not sure
because now the bandwidth are similar and
yes they go load balance now router is thinking we have packet left side also
right side also this is called discontigious network so if I try to ping you will get one ping one node a
ping let's see if I ping 100012
one packet is going in the right direction which will not ping one going in left side which will ping
right so one you are getting reply because One, what is load balance? When
packet is going on the left side, when packet is going on the left side,
then packet is replying because you are pinging the 100012. Then you are getting a ping response.
But automatically router forward also your packet to the right direction because 10 network is on the right side.
But there is no 1012 that's why you do not get the reply from this side. Third
packet you go this side you again get a ping. Fourth packet you use forward this side you do not get a ping. So this is
what we call discontiguous network. When a same network is divided in both like
multiple locations and routers are not supporting subnetting. This can cause
the problem of discontiguous network. Clear everyone?
Okay. Yes.
How to fix this? Just give not summary to RIP version one problem. Okay. That's
why RIP version two came and it support no auto summary. But nowadays even we do
not support uh we do not use the RIP version two also. It's better to use
EGRP directly. Okay. So just go and say not a summary everywhere.
Okay. So I've shown you that this problem will fixed by just giving not a summary. And nowadays you do not have to
give if you are using latest iOS and now if I ping you can see earlier it was a
issue one packet is ping one unreachable. Now let's say
continuous leaping fix the issue and this is what we call benefit of using the VLSM support in the routing
protocols. Clear everyone
what is no IP domain where you have seen that.
Okay. So seamless connectivity
Okay. Okay. So when the line was saying that data link layer protocols. So there are
some very very old techn.
So when there is a very old technologies in u in the van which is like frame
relay even before MS okay so there are some technologies that are
supported by EGRP so that's called NBM non broadcast multiaxis
okay which is a very old technology that we call uh frame relay or like that okay
which is not required because uh from last 7 8 years 10 years we are not using
that okay so the frame relay that ISP uses a frame relay technology earlier
very old days and there if you have to configure EGRP
just give the network commands and you do not have to do anything okay but in
EGRP you do not have to do anything but in case of OPF you have to do some
different configurations okay but in EGRP P like van support for
pointto-point links NVME topologies like standard for ERP that's why we say EGRP
accommodate like layer two technologies also which is like frame relay and all.
So AGRP uses a multiccast address 2 to 40010
remember that. Okay, even I can show you uh like uh if I go to simulation mode
and if I go to filter and say I want to see the EGRP packets. Okay. And just how
to create EGRP packet. Uh just say auto summary or not a summary. And you can
see lot of packets are created. These are EGRP. And if you open any of the packet,
okay, if you open any of the packets, so you can see this is the EGRP packet. So which has a as number 500 sequence
number that every packet gets a sequence number if there is a change if any you
get a new update the sequence number will be 52 again you change 53 the
sequence number will keep increasing okay and this is version two eagp and
the opc which is called the packet con type packet this is uh packet number
three which is update packet hello update reply acknowledgement query so I
think uh this is the update packet only that's why it is a op code this is op code two
yeah this is the you can see packet okay and it is going as a
sequence number so if you do if you want to see the update packet more clearly
What you can do just create a loop back for testing like let's create loop back five
see what loop back see
okay now if I say router eagp 500
okay remember you should be in the simulation mode eagp filter should be on and when you create a loop back now add
this into eagp enter and you see update packet And when
you open the update packet you see this is the version two and the multiccast
address is 2 to 40010 over here. Okay. And after that you open this packet more
and you can see the packet is going on the multiccast address 2 to 40010
and it has a protocol number 58 in hexa decimal. So
m hex decimal complex but it has a protocol number.
Okay. So if as a if I say 58 number in hexa decimal in
actual number this number is called 88. So eagp work on protocol number 88.
Okay. So like uh e I so the biggest protocol we have is IP ICMP has a
protocol number one. So protocol number tell that what protocol you are carrying
pack IP TCP IP under UDP AGRP what protocol
you are carrying inside IP because IP will give you IP addressing that source
to destination but what protocol you are carrying so if I'm carrying AGRP packets
the number will 88 but in hexa decimal 88 is called 58 okay so then you have to
understand decimal to hex a decimal but it is not required. Go to simple calculator and check.
Okay. So you can see AGRP has a protocol number 88.
Now see if please stick to the topic uh IP domain lookup is related to DNS.
Okay. I'm sharing uh one website check in the chat if you have any uh topic
related other topic related doubts you can ask on this. Okay. So it means uh like routers are
doing some stuff. So basically what we have understood that router
hello routers send hello packets to each other and what they become they become
the neighbor hello or
after hello they become the neighbor. Then we send update packet and when we
send all my updates the router will give me acknowledgement. So it means hello is
a packet, update is a packet and acknowledgement is also a packet. Yes, hello is to discover the neighbors that
who all are connected to me. That is hello packet. That is to discover
neighbor by neighbor. Hello. Right.
Right. So whosoever is my neighbor say hello
and those the routers who say hello to each other they become neighbor. Neighbors are good neighbors. They share
their information with their routers with the neighbors and then when you get any update you go you give me
acknowledgement. Yes, I got your packet. The same you send more updates. If you
have a big information you send multiple update packets and you get multiple
acknowledgement packets. So three packets clear. Hello is to discover the
neighbors. Update is to share the information. Acknowledgement is like receipt of the update packet. Okay.
Okay. Now tell me which multiccast address used by EGRP
topic
2 400 10 this is the answer.
Okay. And if people are leaving the class nothing you will not lose anything just
uh you will lose some points in the live portal
and maybe the people who are on the top they will get something from our side
class. So the pe So as I mentioned
as I mentioned the people who attend full classes they are on the top simple.
Okay. So Rinku Anil you can see these are the people who are
getting the points. Okay. So you get five points
when you attend your full life class. This is uh the logic.
Okay. So
join class but don't worry
saying where is my name? I will give you full report. Don't worry. But I have shown you what are the top
seven five guys.
Okay. So simple.
Okay. So today class is over and tomorrow we will understand more about
EGRP. I'll explain again more detail. Hello packet update packet
acknowledgement packet we will understand the flow and after that
we will go and learn the named mode also because tomorrow I'll show you the named mode and before that we will give uh
I'll give you basic idea of IPv6 okay and before I go I
want all of you to Get
battery.
Okay. So, just hold on.
V6.
Okay guys, I'm sharing
The people who are on the live class will be getting this advantage today because sometimes I share a lot of

