ript


starting the OPF class and today is like uh OPF day one okay and uh
so what we are going to cover we'll discuss also in the OPF okay so our new
uh main three topics we will be covering now OPF BGP and after that MLS okay so
now uh I'll be sharing that OPF thing
OSP of day one.
Okay. So what is OPF? Uh it's a routing protocol. So first of all, let me give the quick revision of uh routing.
Okay. So what is routing? Like if multiple routers are connected
together and uh when they want to talk to each other, right? So suppose routers
they share information with each other, right? And they share what? Routing information.
Routing information. So what is routing? Forwarding of
packets from one network to another network. Okay. So what is routing? Forwarding
of packets from one
network to another network.
Okay. And uh when we talk about routing, there are three types of routing. So remember what is routing? Forwarding of
packets. So routers are sharing packets with each other. And what they are sharing? Forwarding of packets from one
network to another network and they are exchanging they are sharing routing information. Okay. So how we can do
routing? There are two three ways. One is called static routing. Right. This is
already you know how to configure static routing. After that we have default
routing. Okay. And the third routing is called dynamic routing.
Dynamic routing. Okay. And in the dynamic routing we have two categories. So in
the dynamic categories we have one category is called IGP and one category
is called EGP. Okay. So, IGP stand for interior
gateway protocol
and EGP stand for exterior gateway protocol.
Okay. So, in the interior gateway protocols, what are the protocol names? Like RIP, which is no longer used, very
small companies use this uh RIP protocol. Then we have EIGRP
and then we have OSPF. Okay. And there is one protocol which is mostly used by a service provider ISIS.
Okay. So normally these are the four important interior gateway protocols and
exterior gateway protocol only one protocol in the market BGP. Okay. Border gateway protocol. Okay. So RIP stand for
routing information protocol. Okay. So if you want uh I can write also
routing information
protocol. Okay, routing information protocol. And then we have enhanced
interior gateway. Enhanced interior
gateway. Okay. OPF is open short test path first.
BFD is another topic. Okay. That is add-on. If you want to increase the speed of routing uh protocol packets. So
open shortest path first.
Okay. And ISIS is intermediate system. Intermediate
system to intermediate system. Okay. Intermediate
system to intermediate system. And BGP stand for border gateway protocol. border
gateway protocol. Okay. So these are the protocols and uh
I'm sure now you got the basic idea. Again this is already we discussed uh
many times but I just wanted to have the quick overview.
Okay. So further uh like uh when
we want to talk about OPF now. Okay. OPF stand for open
open shortest path first.
Okay. So this protocol is uh open standard. Okay, means any company can
use this protocol and this is the most common protocol in IGP category. Okay,
so you can say most commonly used
used protocol. Okay, most commonly used routing protocol and this protocol
uh is made by one scientist called Dtra. Okay, not the Ricktra. So this protocol
is made by John Timmoy. Okay. John T. Moy. Okay.
Okay. John Too. So, and uh this protocol is also known as link state protocol.
So, we'll talk about what is link state. Link state protocol.
Okay. And uh this protocol support VLSM which is called subnetting variable
length subnet mask. Okay. And uh when we talk about the protocol number, OPF has
a protocol number IP89. So it works on protocol number 89. Okay. Vlm and there
are two multiccast address in IPv4 that is 224
05 and this is also 224.0.0.6.
Okay. Five and six. There are two multiccast address. So five is for all routers. Okay. all OPF routers
and six is for DRBDR. We will discuss about DRBDR also. Okay. But uh remember
2 to 4006 is for DRBDR. Yes, EGRP is 88, OPF is
89. Okay. So when it comes to the open shortest path first why companies are using this?
uh suppose you got a internet connection in your company and you have a router
and also maybe you have a firewall okay maybe you can place a firewall before
router also that's company choice so now suppose this is a firewall from polo and
this is a Cisco router okay after that maybe uh some multi-layer switches in
your company okay so there also this is these are layer three so maybe you are
also using Cisco Okay. So now you can see we cannot use Cisco and Cisco
because there is a different company firewall. If you have Cisco then you can run EIGRP in all the devices. But if you
have a firewall maybe from Paul Alto okay Paulo Alto. So you cannot run EIGRP.
So in this case when you have Cisco L3 switches and when you have Cisco router
and between you have Paul auto firewall. So in this region what you will configure? You will configure a open
standard protocol like OPF. Okay. Clear? So why companies are using
OPF? Because maybe Paul Alto and uh some companies are using Paul Alto, some are
using foret. Okay. Foret or 40 gate. So maybe they you are using a checkpoint
firewall. Okay. So there are multiple companies in the firewall like Paul
Alto, Checkpoint, 148 but Cisco like if you have all Cisco products you can use
EGRP okay but if you have any multi- vendor environment where you have Cisco where
you have Juniper where you have Paul Alto in the multi- vendor environment OPF is best protocol and that's why
mostly commonly used I don't have a correct figure but what I what I have
seen that very I'm talking about the big companies almost 80% of the companies
are using OPF okay or maybe it can be 90% because some are using EGRP because
if you have all Cisco devices you will use EGRP and if you have all all uh
different different devices even some companies with the Cisco uh maybe they
don't have firewall maybe they just have router still they prefer OPF also sometimes because uh they want open
standard protocol. Okay. But uh uh again I'm saying EGRP is also very very good
protocol because EGRP support unequal cost load balancing
unequal cost load balancing. Okay. If anybody ask you in interview what why what is the difference between
EGRP and OPF. In EGRP you can have maximum 255 routers but in OPF you do
not have a limit. You can go unlimited unlimited routers.
Okay. So you have like you are getting unlimited knowledge right. So the same
way uh there is no restriction in EGRP we have maximum 255 routers but uh in
OPF you have unlimited routers. Okay, EGRP is best because it support unequal cost
load balancing and also equal cost load balancing. Okay, EGRP support equal
and unequal both but OPF only support what? only support equal cost load
balancing equal cost load balancing because if you have same path then only the OPF is
going to load balance that traffic but if you have uh like uh two paths you
cannot load balance okay if you have different bandwidth okay let's uh let me
give example suppose this is a router okay and uh so this is a destination And
this is your router. So suppose you are going from router one to router two to router 4. And there is another path
router one to router three router four. So the above link is like 1 GB 1 GB.
Okay. And the below path is like your 700 MB link. Okay. MB.
Okay. Okay. So now tell me in normal EGRP
it is not going to load balance because it is not same bandwidth. When you have 1 GB 1 GB up and down then only the EGRP
is going to do the equal cost load balancing. But even we have seen in the EGRP classes okay that if you have even
700 MB 500 MB okay just we have to make sure about the feasibility condition right if remember
please connect your charger. Thank you. Bye.
Okay. Yeah. So now OPF support
un equal cost load balancing but why a GRP is best because equal cost and
unequal cost both and rest it has a faster convergence because it store the
backup path in the topology table. Okay. So fast convergence
OPF is not fast as EGRP because OPF has a very big database table which because
OPF created very big database table that is called link state database okay we'll
talk about that but I'm just talking about the difference if somebody ask you in interview okay that what is the
difference between OPF and EGRP so you have to only tell the difference not all
theory of OPF all theory of EGRP Okay. So don't speak like this. Okay. OPF is
open standard protocol. It has a multiccast address 2 to45 and 6. Okay.
Uh it is a uh it supports subating. So they are asking you only the difference.
Okay. Difference sana what's the actual difference? EGRP support unequal cost load balancing.
Remember this for your life. Okay. and rest eagp is faster than OPF because
even in EGRP the hello packets are sent after every 5 seconds. So EGRP hello is
how much seconds? 5 second and hold down timer is 15 second in EGRP but in OPF we
have a timer hello is 10 seconds. Okay. And hold down we call hold down
timer as a dead timer in OPF. So dead timer is 40 seconds.
Okay. Remember hello time 10 seconds. If you do not send me hello back, I will
wait for another 40 seconds. And if you do not give me hello back in 40 seconds, I will remove the neighborhip.
Okay. So I need a hello in around 40 second and if you do not send me hello
then I will remove the neighborhip. So it means OPF also create some kind of a neighborhip right. Yes that's correct.
OPF has also three tables which we'll be talking about in the next screen. Okay.
So I'll be taking the screenshot of this so that I'll share with all of you.
All good.
And what's the excuse? Actually, I just uh lost my HDMI cable for my
another monitor. Today I bought it again. To teach like this, we need multiple
screens. Okay. So, uh let's repeat again. OPF is
open shortest path first. Okay. And after that it support uh it is a open
standard protocol. It support uh subnetting. Okay. It support uh equal
cost load balancing OSP work on protocol number 89 IP okay IP 89 and OPF hello
timer is around 10 second dead timer is 40 second and uh OPF uh
you yeah in OPF you can have unlimited routers uh plus in OPF yeah OPF is made
by John Timoy but in interviews don't say it is made by John Timmoy that is only for your information. Okay,
clear. and uh rest rest there are other things also which we'll discuss okay so
yeah ad value is repending okay so we'll discuss further okay like in OPF again remember
so I remember I have taken one interview and he's very like average in OPF but
when I asked him the full form he couldn't speak that he said open
like just he remember that open sometimes. So remember when you go for interview at least you know the full
forms not at least you should know right open shortest path first and this open
shortest per OPF work on one algorithm that is called SPF algorithm.
Okay. And this LPF algorithm made by one scientist that is Drixtra
algorithm. So you can say this is made by Diktra. Okay. One of the scientist who created SPF algorithm and John Tmoy
used this. Okay. So John ty
So John Tmoy used this algorithm and created the OPF
clear now how to answer in terms of L1 L2 depends
uh see there is no such L1 L2 OPF questions there are no different questions like okay companies are going
to ask uh OPF very basic from the CCNA
people or very advanced from the CCNP people. Okay. No like even if you are
going for a fresher job they will ask you in depth. Okay. If you are going for good company.
So now understand that OPF create three tables.
First is neighbor table.
Okay. Second is database table.
Third is routing table.
Okay. So neighbor table is list of directly connected routers. Okay. So suppose this is the router one and R1 R2
you configure OPF. Okay. So he send hello packet to router two and router
two will also send hello packet and this they will become what neighbor. So after
exchanging hello packets what they become neighbor. So it means directly connected routers are neighbor. Okay.
List of directly connected directly connected routers.
Okay. So in the neighbor table what we will have? Router one will have the router two information and router two
will have the router one information. Okay. So list of directly connected routers that information is available in
the neighbor table. Okay. So now suppose a router two has a lot of information
and router one also has lot of information that information that are called roots. Okay. Prefixes. Okay. The
technical word of routes are called prefixes. Okay. like 192 168 1.0/24.
So we what we call them route okay root 1921. So but in technical language we
call this prefix. Okay. So router one will send the routes or prefixes to router 2 and all this information they
will send with one packet that is called update. Okay. Even in EGRP EGRP also share all
information with which packet? Update packet. Okay. So but in OPF we call this
link state update lsu. Link state update lsu. Okay. So now when router one share
me all the routes I'm going to store in the database table. Okay. means I will
store all information of routing list of okay or uh
I would say list of directly connected and
all the links within the area. Okay. So I would say all the link information
within the area. Okay. Or it's just say all the link information all the because OPF every prefix every link. So these
are called this is why I call link state. We store all the prefixes everything as a link links in the
database table or what we call full picture of the topology. Okay. So there is another good way to explain that OSPF
database is like your Google map. Okay, if you go to Google map, you can go anywhere right because Google know every
path of any important uh city or country right. So database is like full picture
of the topology. So because database has the full information full information
about the network.
Okay. Full information about the network and routing table always have what path?
Best path. Okay. So all the best routes we always
forward in the routing table. Okay. There are three commands to check neighbor table. Uh the command is show
ipospf database or show ipospf neighbor.
This is the first command you can remember to check the neighbor table. After that show ipospf
database. Okay. So this is to check the database
table and routing table already you know show ip route but if you only want to see the routes of OPF so you can say
show ip route space OPF. Okay. So these are the three commands to
check your neighbor database and uh routing table.
Vive I don't know about Google maps maybe they are using
okay
Okay. So, so let's repeat. OPF uses one algorithm
called shortest path first made by Djixtra modified by John Timmoy and
created OPF. Clear everyone? After that OPF share hello packet and
become neighbor and that neighbor information we store in the neighbor table where we say list of directly
connected routers. And then we have database table where we have the full information about the network
and uh prefixes means routes sun. Okay. And the routing table
has a best path. Routing table has best path information.
database has no limit. It can store as many entries to nakshi. Okay. But yes, if you have very big
database table, it can create problem. So we should use a proper design. That
is uh the work of network consultants and architects.
Okay. Okay. So now in OPF like OPF is very cool because
OPF can divide their network into like why
we create V lens remember in companies why we suppose a company
has like lot of computers okay maybe 2,000 computers why we do not
store them in one wheel anybody can tell me what is the
Like if you have many many computers and they are in the same office that is my company office. Okay. So we normally
divide our company into multiple different VLANs. Okay. So that if any broadcast will come
the broadcast will not go to all the computers. Remember so what companies do
they do? they buy the managed devices managed devices like Cisco or HP. So
there are two type of switches one is unmanageable which where in unmanageable where we
will always have a problem of what broadcast but in manageable switches in
the manageable switches we have a concept of VLANs where we can reduce the broadcast domain.
Okay, reduce the broadcast domain.
Okay, so in the without broadcast what will happen? If you send a broadcast the
packet will go to all machines. But if you have VLANs, you can divide them into
some different different parts. Okay, this is maybe VLAN 10. This is maybe VLAN this this is like maybe VN 20. This
is maybe VN 30. Okay, this is maybe v 40
and if maybe this is your van 50. So what will happen that if you have
multiple vans, if you broadcast in this network, the broadcast will be going in the v 10 devices only. Okay. So we have
v 10. So only the v 10 computers will get the broadcast packet. one broadcast
packet will not go to another VLAN because one VL by default do not forward
traffic to another VLAN. Yes or no? Yeah. So basically remember VLANs we
create to reduce the broadcast domain. So now remember the topic is OPF.
This is just an explanation so that you try to relate that why we create areas
in OPF. So now we have similar way OPF has a concept of areas. Okay. So why
areas? Because OPF used by very big companies and all.
So now consider we have routers.
[Music]
I wish I can draw this. as soon as possible but
okay so I'm just creating like maybe 30 40 routers but I'm talking about if
you have just imagine these are 500 700 or 200 lot of routers okay lot of
routers and they all are in suppose one area
they all are in one area. Okay. So now what will happen? Suppose this is
DIY office.
This is Delhi office or boundary.
Okay. So suppose this is Delhi office and now this is maybe
Chundigan very tier 2 city. Okay. Or maybe this is
uh your Japur or this is maybe Agra. Okay. All these
are cities in India. If anybody is not from India. Yeah. So I'm talking about the cities. Okay. I Okay. So now
consider whatever cities you are into. So now one of your city local area
network got linked down. Okay. Because of some fiber cable issue. So just imagine di local
area network cable is down. What will happen? Di router will forward the
information to the neighbors. Neighbor is maybe this is another office. So the
neighbor will share that information with their neighbors their information and these neighbor will again pass that
information to their neighbors their neighbors like this. So basically what will happen all routers share their
information with each other. And all information in OPF are sent in
called a link state advertisement LSA. Okay. All OPF information we send in
link state advertisement.
Okay. Link state is a protocol advertisement that I'm sharing some information and this is called LSA
link state advertisement. So what will happen if we unnecessarily
forwarding information everywhere everywhere because they are in one area
what will happen?
Understand there are only 50 routers on my screen but if you have 300 400
routers just imagine all 500 routers sharing information with each other. So
what is that? What is going on now? like all packets are coming back to the routers again and again again and again
again again and again. Okay. So cross like if they are connected means all routers will share information with
their routers and this is called LSA flooding.
LSA flooding and to reduce
and to reduce okay and what would be the problem if you have lot of LSA flooding the OPF is
going to consume lot of CPU lot of memory and lot of bandwidth three things
are major issue in the companies in the routers CPU CPU, memory and bandwidth.
Yes or no? Router CPU.
Yeah, router CPU will go high. The memory RAM consumption if lot of
processing is going on. The router is busing busing processing the packets, right? So memory will be full also.
Bandwidth also will be full, right? So all these things will create a
problem in the company network and can do lot of problems and all the offices
not DIY office only all even in Chandigar Agara Japur every city will be
impacted yes so it's a big problem yes or no so
it means in OPF uh again I'm saying these are only 50 routers
40 to 50 routers will not create a Okay. So, Cisco recommend that that you
can have around 50 routers per area maximum recommendation that if you have
40 50 routers per area, it is okay. But if you have 100, 200, 300 routers in one
area, if if the packet will be down, if one of the LAN network or anything
happens in one location, it the location will forward all the packet to all the routers.
Okay. So what is area? It is like in OPF you have a feature that if you want to
protect LSA flooding because if you do not protect LSA flooding your router CPU
memory bandwidth will be used too much. So what areas are going to do that we
will divide our network into multiple areas like wheel lens. Okay. So like
suppose if I divide this network into four parts. Okay. Okay. And I will give them name some some name.
Okay. So suppose this is OPF area 0 which is called mandatory area. Okay.
This is area 1. This is area 2. This is area three. This is area four. Whatever.
Right? Area. So all these areas are now connected with each other. But what will
happen if any network goes down in Delhi? Okay. So, di will inform only the
in within the area and only the important router of this network
that is called area border router will inform other area border router. Okay. So, we'll discuss about that. But so
there will be no route exchange between too many routers
because information has to pass right if the LAN network is down we should pass
this information everywhere. Yes, that's also important. But we will not share with everyone. We
will share with the important routers. Are you getting my point? Okay. So it's
like if anything goes uh suppose if I want to manage the entire country I will
speak to my uh what we call politicians or the main leaders right or maybe the
army officers if I'm Modi right suppose so I'll talk to the army person I'll
talk to the politician and all okay so I'll not go and speak to all uh I hope
you got the point right so when I'm talking about OPF so when you do not
have variators Like everyone is coming to the main, everyone is talking to
everyone. There is no hierarchy. There is going to be a problem for everyone because nobody knows where to report.
Okay? For for another example, if you are a big company, right? So if you are
a big company, so you all have managers, you all have vice presidents, then
founders, directors, right? Why? Because some that everyone has to report their
manager. So consider that in every area we will create some managers. These routers are called ABR area border
routers area. Okay. So means all routers will not talk to each other with outside the area only
my manager will speak that is called area border router. ABR
area border router. Okay. So we'll discuss about that also.
Okay. It means if anybody wants to talk to another area who is responsible
area border router okay that's why it is called area border router okay but
remember all areas why the interview question is why we have areas
and 90% of the network engineers cannot answer this and you guys are listening
you guys are noting ing or doing what we call making our notes or even if you you
will have this videos remember we create areas to reduce LSA flooding reduce
the right answer is reduce LSA flooding like what what is the use of ven to
reduce broadcast traffic remember why we have
sales marketing office divided right we do not create vance that I want
to create different different department sales marketing stuff yeah because we
create vance so that we can reduce the broadcast the same way in OSPA we create
areas so that we can reduce the LSA flooding and what is LSA link state
advertisement and what is going in the link state advertisement LSAs are going in which packet? LSU
because I told you link state update. All LSA is going inside LSU. That is in
depth. I'll cover that. There is no limitation in OPF. You can create
millions of areas in OPF. Okay. It is like 4 million something to
the power of 32 approx. Okay. Okay. So, uh link state update.
So, all LSA information because LSA is not a packet. LSA is not a packet. It is
a type of advertisement that is going in the packet of LSU.
Okay. Like HTTP protocol, HTTPS, SMTP.
Do you think they can travel their own? No. they use that TCP
right HTTP protocol cannot go because HTTP is just a website information
protocol what we call hypertext transfer protocol but he cannot travel himself
they need some transport layer protocols that's why we use a TCP in the HTTP HTTPS SMTP
Okay. So the same way OSPF.
Okay. So let's revise again. So we started from here. What is routing? Forwarding of packets from one
network to another network. We have static routing, default routing, dynamic routing, dynamic routing. We have
interior gateway protocol. Exterior gateway protocol. Interior it has RIP, EGR, RP, OPF, ISIS, B, EGP has only one
protocol BGP border gateway protocol. Okay. After that in OPF we have open
shortest path first open standard protocol. Most commonly used protocol made by John Tmoy link state protocol.
It supports subnating work on protocol number 89. It uses two multiccast address 2 to4005 2 to4006.
it. You can have unlimited routers in OPF. You can have equal cost load balancing in OPF. Again try to recall
this again and again and speak in front of mirror for 5 minutes.
Okay? Because when you go for interviews they can just some sometimes they simply ask you to speak about OPF or just tell
me what is OPF. So till that time interviewer don't say stop man stop. Now
I know you know keep doing keep talking about OPF
okay because some interviewers they just want to see how much knowledge you know
and when but remember they will always do counter questions suppose when I'm saying okay OPF has multiccast address
22005 and six they will ask you okay tell me six 224006 is used for what
purpose then you have to understand okay six is for DRBDR
points interview. Okay, the first question they will ask you, okay, tell me something about O SPF. Okay, or which
routing protocol is your favorite. They can ask you this thing also. And now you're saying my favorite is RIP. Your
interview is over. Okay, don't say RIP is your favorite
protocol. Okay, so at least say OPF or BGP. So because in this batch you will
be learning OPF also BGP also. So whatever you like the most go with that.
Okay. I recommend you to go with the OPF and if you are going for enterprise and
if you are going for service provider companies always say my favorite is BGP.
Okay. So when you are applying jobs to enterprise companies always say my favorite protocol is OPF and when you
are going for AL when you are going for JO AT&T Sprint level three Qualcomm
whatever right if there are any service provider go for uh the BGP protocol or
MS okay MS is not a protocol so BGP you you should choose BGP
okay so equal cost load balancing unequal cost load balancing remember the reference what I have told you and after
that uh OPF work on SPF algorithm. Distra is the scientist. So we can share
information with each other uh with the update packet link state update. But we
become neighbor when we share the hello packets and when we share hello information hello packet we become
neighbor and neighbor information we store in the neighbor table. All the information of OPF we store in the
database table in the routing table we store the best uh path. Okay.
So now remember why we have OPF areas because to reduce the LSA flooding we
have uh LSA's what we call areas in OPF
and if anybody ask you okay what is LSA flooding you can tell if you have LSA flooding in OPF uh it will create issues
for uh bandwidth memory and CPU because if your router CPU memory and bandwidth
is consumed your network is not stable.
Right.
Okay.
Okay. So guys, uh let's go further. I have taken the screenshot. Let's jump
onto areas explanation. Question time. Yes, I'll take your question after this.
Okay. If you have very small question, you can keep asking in the chat also. Okay. So
it's like I take OPF, BGP. See I have taken the AGRP also very seriously.
So I don't want to contradict to my statement. But OPF is something I love to teach. BGP is something what I love
to teach. BGP MS I get double energy when I start OPF or BGP or any these
topics. Okay. So OPF areas. Let's talk about OPF areas.
Okay. So in remember in OPF we have one
area which is called area zero is mandatory. Okay. Like v one is mandatory
like all the ports of v are in v one. So the same way like when you configure
like there should be area zero area 0 is mandatory.
Okay. After that all areas
should connect to
should connect to area zero. It means area 0 is the backbone.
Area zero is backbone area
like all your body also has a backbone right so your
hands neck everything mostly like backbone is the main uh uh part right so
this that's why area zero is the backbone and uh if you have multiple
areas like multiple areas and you have multiple areas
and there should be one area which is actually connecting all the areas like all these routers they are part of area
this is the area zero routers they are called backbone area this is backbone
area if it is area zero okay all other areas
okay so remember this This cable is going in this area, right? So this
router has a link. This link is going in the area zero, right? But this is area
one. This is area one. So this link, this link in this link is in area one.
But this link in zero. So when any router participate in multi- area that
is ABR because this router is helping you to go outside the area area router
participate in multiple area. So participate in multiple areas.
Okay. Okay. So area border router remember full form area
border router.
Yes it's like a mediator definitely this router will speak with another router to
share information but these routers will not they will share all information with ABR and ABR will forward that
information. Okay. The same way this router remember all areas should connect
to area zero. It means if these routers are there if suppose this is area three
so area three will talk to area 1 no directly they cannot talk area four area
three they cannot talk to each other. Okay. So like if you have four routers
they cannot speak they cannot talk to each other because if they want to speak
they have to go through with the area zero. So means they should have a link to area 0 routers they should have the
link to area 0 router. So this router is ABR of area 3. This router is ABR of
router 4. So do you think we have one ABR per area? No. If this router is connected to another ABR. Okay. So this
router is also because any router which is connected to zero also participate in
multiple areas. They all routers are area B routers
router. Okay. One path one link one cable. If any router one cable is in the
area zero and also participating in other area that is area border router
participate in multiple areas but mandatory is area zero. Okay. So again
you have multiple routers and if all wants to talk suppose this is area maybe
five. So five area have to connect with area zero and these all this router is
area border router.
Okay. So let's repeat OPF areas and we create OPF areas to reduce
LSA flooding and if you have lot of LSA flooding then
it will kill your CPU memory bandwidth
right. So to reduce LSA flooding and LSA flooding if you have limited LSA
flooding your CPU memory bandwidth will not be very high that's why we create areas and when we create areas remember
area zero is mandatory second rule all areas should connect to area zero. Third
or area zero is called backbone area. Okay. And fourth area zero routers are
called backbone routers. Backbone routers.
Okay. Normal area routers are called internal routers. Internal
and the third router name are area border router. So we have three routers
backbone routers which are area zero routers. Internal routers which are in
different area routers but not area zero. Area zero routers are backbone routers. Okay. Internal routers means
all these routers are internal routers. But which routers
which participate in multiple areas like this router, this router, this router.
So all routers are internal routers but the routers which participate in area
zero which they are called area border router. Yes.
In all router of area 0 backbone router. Yes. Yes. All if all routers are zero if
all links are 0 0 0. So they are all backbone routers. But if you put
this link in area one, understand the concept guys zero instead of zero.
How to undo here?
Yeah. So if I make this link one, so it means this router also all links in one.
So this become internal and this router 0 0 and this cable is one. So now this
router become the ABR. Okay. So I'll explain more in detail. Don't worry. It is just a overview right
now. You will not become expert of OPF in just one class.
But yes, if you attend all classes properly and if you revise the topic
again and again, you will definitely become expert in OPF and after BGP MS
everything as
let me go with my speed. Okay.
[Music]
OSP
[Music] flooding. Let's say flooding.
Okay. So, give me 5 minutes. Okay, I'll come back.
Let's take a 5 minutes break.
But
no 7 minutes, 5 minutes.
break Google. Okay, come back in 5 minutes.
Okay.
So, I'm audible. Yes.
So in OPF uh as I mentioned we have areas. So
yeah, so in OPF as I mentioned like we have
routers. Okay. So now consider they all are in
area zero.
Okay. So we have one another area maybe three routers
that is also area. So this is area five or area 500
whatever number you can give any number. So we have more routers
they all are connected that is area 700 and there is some routers
like uh this
okay so this is area like maybe 600
okay but after 600 these this router is also running E AGRP.
Okay. So because these routers are running EGRP but here between this we
are running OPF. This is area 600. So this router which is running OPF plus
E AGRP that is known as ASBR autonomous system boundary router. Okay.
So don't get confused in ABR or ASBR. ASBR stand for autonomous
system boundary route because in EGRP what we
have AS number right so autonomous system boundary it is not EGRP or it can
be RIP it can be ISIS it can be BGP any other protocol so we call this router
autonomous system boundary router
Okay. Which participate in multi- protocols
participate in multiple routing protocol. Multiple
routing protocol. So now you obviously going to connect
the cable with this router. Remember this link in zero. This link in zero.
Right? If you add this link also in zero and obviously if you give area zero this
side you have to opposite side is always same area. Okay. So router facing each
other should be in same area. Routers
connected together. Okay. Or facing would be better word. Router facing each other like when they are connected with
one cable routing facing each other should be in same area
same area.
Okay. So now in this case this router is 500.
This cable is also 500. So in this case this router will become what? ABR
right? But now this cable we are giving to 700 but this router is again zero.
This is also zero. But this cable we added in 700 and this is also 700 700
everywhere. Right? So now in this case this is ABR
not this router because this cable in 700 and this all router complete network
is also in 700. So in this case this router is ABR
but in area 500 what is happening? My my own router is ABR.
Okay, my main my this router is ABR means the area 500 has their own ABR
uh in this area. But if I make this 700 like this, so this will be ABR. So remember the router which participate in
multi area becomes the ABR. Okay. And now if I add this link also to area
zero and this cable also with this router. Okay. So in this case if I give
here maybe 600 and opposite side is also 600. So in this case also this is ABR
for 600 but for 500 this router is ABR. So it is not complicated. It is just a
way of uh designing the OPF network. Okay. So if you do not want this router
to become ABR. Okay. Okay. So what you can do you can add also this link in
this link also zero. Okay. But already this router has 600 everywhere. So in
this case this is ABR. But if I add zero here zero here
opposite side zero. Okay it should be zero. In this situation this router is
ABR. Okay. So it in our company we can have
multiple areas multiple ABRs. Okay. And if you have EGRP here also on top of
that you are running EIGRP here also you can make router ASBR.
Okay. So that is the plus point of OPF. It is super flexible and you can change
according to you. Okay. So remember you have uh uh area zero routers which are
called backbone routers which are part of area zero area zero
routers. Then we have AS ABR routers participate in multi area multi area
keyword. Yeah. Okay. ASBR
which is multi- routing protocol multi- routing protocol
and internal routers are normal routers which are only one single area routers
like they are only one area routers but not area zero because if area zero
single routers are called backbone but normal like this router area this is
internal this is also internal this is also internal okay but these routers are
not internal they are zero area so that's why we call them backbone area so what is zero in OPF that is that design
uh surrender that area zero should be backbone why because if you want to
communicate one area with another area what I told you we talk to another area
with the help of ABR okay so ABR B condition what is the condition to
become ABR that your One interface should be in area zero.
Okay. If you do not have area zero, then how you will make ABR and if you don't have ABR then how you will talk to
another areas. So zero is like a default area in OPF
not default. Default is not a correct word. By default zero is the main backbone area. And if you have a router
where you put that router in area zero also area one also that is AVR. Okay. So
when you we will configure this then only we will understand because
this is the first time I'm not showing you lab directly we will we are talking about the theory.
Uh that's why you are getting little challenge to understand but don't worry we'll start the things very soon.
Area zero is like a bridge. Yeah. Okay. So, what I'll do uh
Guys, if you have simple questions like you can put down in the chat. Let me do some small lab and I'll take your
questions. Okay. So beach flow second because this is the first session
after two second third session uh you already know right uh we can you can ask
question after 20 30 minutes also but it is like uh let me keep the flow and uh
I'll take your questions very soon okay so I think to make it more simple
we can have a packet tracer lab also.
See software do not matter guys. You can use GNS3 labs or whatever. Okay. So
we can have uh this scenario also.
Okay. And if I go to this uh lab guide.
Okay. Okay. So there is a lab in OPF. Okay. So where we have only two routers
but uh so uh we'll start in our labs with the lab 12 but it has only two
routers. Uh but I'll be creating a little like multiple routers.
Let's see Rahul just to focus on the lab first. Okay. So I'll be taking the routers
any routers. So I'll be taking 2811 router. Okay. So let's create these two routers
in area uh zero and uh
these two routers maybe area 500 and these are 600. I think three areas
are okay right now. Okay. So we will just create a boundary like this in packet tracer for easy understanding.
Okay, I'll connect the cable from router to router two, router two to router
zero, router 0 to router 1, router one to router 4, router 4 to router 5. Okay.
So now uh obviously this is my area maybe 500.
This is like area 600. Okay. And if you want end to-end connectivity,
if you want to see the end to-end connectivity, you can have the LAN network both sides. Okay. You can have
some computers or because at the end of the day, why we are running routing protocols? So that we can go from one
place to another locations. Okay. Maybe we have a server and uh I want that server to be
connected to me.
Okay. So now let's configure this and uh we will configure the IP address also.
Okay. So so uh this is like a router 2 three. So
I'm using a subnet like maybe 23 okay or maybe we can use any other subnet also
uh like 200.1.23/24
okay so I'm using this subnet here 200.1 uh 23.0
and between these two routers I'm using 20 because it's router zero.
So this is like 20 dot
Okay. So I'm writing the subnets only. I'll take the name only router 32.
Okay. So 0 4 5. So I'll take this router name six. Okay. Because zero we cannot
give IP. So this is router six like. Okay. So this is like uh 60 or 16 we can
also use. So whenever I get confused I just take the router numbers and I make a subnet
like 200.1. So 1 and six you can take 61 also or 16. So I'm using 16 subnet here.
So this is one or four. So I'll take here 14.0. So that's easy way to configure IPs.
Elseh you will waste a lot of time in deciding what IP should I give. Okay. So
this is the easy way. So this is 445. I'll take a subnet here 200.145.0.
So all all subnets are different right because this is class C. So the 20 and
this network is different because / 24 is the third octed is different. So it
means they are already different network.
So I'll take here 26 because 20 2 and 6 26
1 and 6 is 16 1 and 414 and 545 and
these are my LAN networks. So I can give any network maybe 192 168.1 this side.
Okay. So I'll be giving this IP to my gateway in the LAN network and the other side IP I am giving here 192 168.2.1.
Okay. So this is my entire network looks like this. So 200.1.165
all these IPs and let me configure the IP addresses.
Don't worry. So it is just a basic lab today. Okay. So that people don't
because when I start directly in the servers and all so people uh like u they
get little overwhelmed they get feeling of uh complexity.
So this is my observation in packet tracer people feel like it is a simple lab that's why first lab should be
always packetraer lab.
Okay. So now consider this is the router three. Router three. Let's say router 3.
Configure terminal host name R3. Interface FA00. IP address 200.1.23.3
because this is router 3. Okay. So no shutdown. Then we have a fa01.
But I am not giving here 1.3. So 1.1 is okay.
No shutdown. Okay. So, O SPF we will configure later on. But let's say IP
first. So, router 2 we'll copy here and paste.
And router 2 will be router 2 host name router 2 fa00 is 23.
2 fa01 is 20.26 26
200.1.26.2. Okay. Rest all same. And then we have
router 6. Okay. Copy paste this.
So router 6 host name router 6 f00 is 26
6 because this is a router 6 26
okay fa01 is 16.6 6 16
That's it. Router 6 is done. Now router 1 is pending. Router one.
Host name R1. F000 is 16 dot
1. Okay. This is FA01
14.1 14.1
Okay. And then there is a router 4
copy.
Okay. Okay. So, router 4 host name router 4 f000 is uh 14.4.
Okay. And f01 is 45
4. Okay. So 14.4 45.4 and there is router
five now. How easy configuration is this? Right.
Router five. So, router 5 fs00 is 14.5,
right? 45.5. Okay. 40
45 and then there is a LAN network F01
which is 192 168.2.1. Okay. So, all the IPs are done guys.
Let's copy paste one by one. Okay. So this is router 3 configuration.
Let's copy configure terminal no shutdown. Copy. Go to router 3 cli
and uh after enable I paste because I type from the config t. So all the IPs
are given in the router 3. Very cool. Uh let's say router two.
Router to copy. We go to the router two CLI
no enable and paste. This is router two configuration IP
addresses are given. After that router 6.
Okay. All IPs are given in router 6,
router one. I'll give this packet tracer file to you and you all have to configure this.
Okay. So, I'll save this in your notes and I want all of you to send me this
back by doing ping. Okay. This is your OPF assignment number
one. Upload in the live portal. Clear.
Okay. So, router 4.
Oh man, I've done the wrong copy paste. Enable. I have not done the enable and paste from config D. Sometimes uh this
happen. Okay. So I have to do the enable first to copy paste.
Okay. So that's it. And router five configuration is last router.
Okay. So all done now. And uh if you want to configure a DHCP because of lots
Okay. So, simple lab. Okay. So, in the simple lab in the router 3, let's let's
give this name like maybe let's make it more simple by giving a city name. Let's
say this is my Delhi office. Okay. So, I'll give the host name Delhi to my router.
Okay. Okay. So this is my daily office and uh the last router is my like
Bangalore router. Okay. So BGLR small Bangalore. So Delhi
to Bangalore or what is objective of your company that uh network engineers
please configure so that we can connect DI to Bangalore. Okay. Connectivity. So
this is what we are trying to achieve and this is what we call implementation project.
Okay. So now it is very simple in packet tracer but in real world it is going to be very little challenging not in the
terms of configuration. Okay. But in the terms of uh what we call in the terms of
uh uh like connecting with ISP and all basically in real world what will happen
that first you have to take a cable from DI to maybe this is your office maybe
good now. Okay. So this cable is also given by ISP. This cable is also given
by ISP. All these cables what you see between routers, they all are
provided by ISP. They are not internet links. I'm not talking about internet right now.
I'm talking about my head office to branch office connectivity. So this can
be possible with MLS or the other technologies which we will learn in the ISP classes. Okay. So just imagine
that when ISP give you cable first you have to check that I'm able to connect
from Di to Mumbai. Okay Mumbai to Pune, Pune to whatever
Hyderabad, Hyderabad to maybe Bangalore, right? Everything we have to check step
by step. There should be a big involvement of the ISP. After that uh
site visitor, field engineers, technicians. Okay. So it is a big project, right? because we are
connecting our multiple locations together. How to check what
what technologies to connect router ISP? Okay. Understand the enterprise network first then you will understand the
service provider. How to check location router? Normally in companies we give the name of the
city. Okay. Like Deli router one, Mumbai router 2. This is mostly used in the
companies. they uh provide the router name with city name or the location
name. Okay, that's the simple way. Okay, now the
basic IPs are done. My objective that I should give the LAN network IP. So I'll
configure what DHCP. So DHCP is the dynamic host configuration
protocol. Okay. Can anybody tell me what are four packets in DHCP? Type in the chat.
Dora. Yeah. Dora. Dora. Discover
offer request and acknowledgement. Very good. Uh Prague is the only one who has written
the full packets. Good. Prague Deepak also. Sumit also. Now everybody
is doing copy paste. Okay. Okay. So router. So we will
configure DHCP pool. So we say IP DHCP pool. Okay. Pool name is like CCNP.
Okay. You can give any name. Okay. So I'm giving IP DHCP pool uh CCNP or DIY
whatever. Okay. So Delhi LAN network. So so make sure you write
the same one again if you have to configure. Okay. So let's say simple one DL. Okay.
not driving license. Okay. So, IP DHCP pool DL and I'm saying
my default my default router which router is giving
IP address 192 168.1.1
and my network of giving IP address is 1.0 and subnet mask.
Okay. And if you want to exclude IP address. Okay. Suppose you want uh this
router IP should not give to the computer. So obviously router will not give but still you want that some IPs I
want to reserve. Okay. So in Cisco you can say IP DHCP
exclude address. Okay. So I'll type here because uh
okay. Okay. So in we configure a DHCP. Okay. And say if I want to
I don't want to give IP like 1.1. So what will happen? Like IP DHCP pool
IP DHCP exclude address. Which IPs I want to exclude. These are IPs are my
router IPs. I don't want to give these IPs to computers. And do you want to
store any other IPs like 1.1 to 1.10? Maybe you have servers anything in your
office. So you can store up to four IPs, five IPs. Maybe you have uh requirement
of servers in future in the office. So I I will say okay let me store from 1.1.10
exclude. Okay don't give these IPs in the DHCP. I want to exclude from the com
because you have given the complete network here. So 1.1 to 1.254 254 you
will these IPs will be allocated to the computers everywhere but if you want to exclude that okay 1.1 to 1.10 10 I don't
want to give so that that's just give this command and first 10 IPs will not
be used that is reserved you can give them static IPs okay you can give these
IPs are like reserved and uh
36 okay so this is the command if I want to
reserve IP so it means when I go to my computer if I so my computer will get IP
from the DHCP's router. Okay. So the router say okay I will give you IP from
1.11 because 1 to 10 is reserved. So if I click on the DHCP so we will be
getting you can see 1.11 here. Okay 1.11 here. Okay. So the same way we will
configure in the Bangalore also the same way. Okay. We copy here
and now we go to the Bangalore router name is router five
the last router. So here also we will configure the pool but here we will say
BG Bangalore or BGLR. Okay. So the IP address of my router is 2.1. My network
is also 2.0 0 and I want to reserve IP from 2.1 to maybe 250.
Okay. Or maybe 20. So first 20 IPs I want to reserve. So that totally depends
on your office. If you have lot of servers you can store 20, 30, 40. Okay.
Should we not give IP default router? No. This is the only command I have never. Should we not give IP?
IP default router is not a command. Default router is a command.
IP route say confusion or static route start with IP route. I think you're
mixing some concepts but command is not important guys. Okay. So uh definitely
maybe after one year you will not remember all commands right. So it is
the batch the course is not all about commands it is way of understanding the
topic okay how OSPF work how it is working. So even after 2 years even if
you forget still you can come back and check again the content and everything whatever you want to see okay or you
just create your own notes and just revise the notes again and try to recall that because nobody expect that you
learn every command even I configure IPSec in companies but I
maybe if I configure IPSec without checking Google or without checking maybe I will also miss something because
some configur urations are very complex and but if your concepts are good so
commands are very easy to configure. Okay. So make sure you understand the
concept not uh do not run for the commands. Nobody hardly anyone ask uh
commands in the interview. Okay. So now we have given the DCP here.
So server always server should have the static IP. Right. So I have configured
DCP just for fun here because I don't have any computers here but still if you want you can have a computer here for
testing. Uh and this computer will be getting IP from the 21 because servers
we should always use static IP right so this is a computer and you can see the
IP will start from 21 yes 2.21 21 because first 20 IP I reserved and the
1.1 2.1 IP I have given to the router and I will give the server 2.2 two
because this is my reserved IP. I can allocate to this server. I go here, give
IP, then just give the gateway. Okay, that's it. Okay, so we have the entire
network set up right now. But do you think uh from 1.11 whatever IP we are
getting here, do you think we will be able to communicate from 1.11 to 2.2? two.
Yes, that's uh good. Okay. Yes. Something.
Okay. Let's try to go to the simulation mode. Okay. In the packet tracer and I
click here. I only want to see the ICMP packet because I'm going to generate a ping packet. That's why ping work on
which protocol? ICMP internet control message protocol
ICMP. So now I activated ICMP and I will also activate the ARP because I want you
to understand the concept of packet flow. Okay. So now when I go from this computer to another network. Okay. So
when I go to command prompt. Okay. So I say I want to go to ping 192. Okay.
Let's Okay. So if I have not given the ping command but still the packet is
created here. So you can always ignore go real time click on the simulation again and it will the packet will go on.
Remember I want to see ARP and ICMP. So I will select only ARP ICMP and then I
go and create the ping packet that I want to go from 2.2. So when I hit the ping 2.2 two the first thing computer
will check my IP address with my computer
so when I ping this there is clear yeah so when I ping this
IP this IP is in another network my computer is into 1.1 network right so
the first computer check okay this IP is in another network I have to contact my
gateway because gateway way is the computer will forward the packet to gateway. Okay. And gateway will forward
router information to another router like this. Okay. Means I I want gateway
like you have a home. Like suppose this is your home, right? And this is the gate. You go outside from your gate,
right? Always come from this side until unless your father is not standing in
front of you and you are drunk. You will go from another path.
Okay. So jokes apart. So yeah. So if I want to go
to another network, I will use gateway, right? I will use the gateway to go outside the network. That's why gateway
is very very important. And if you don't have gateway, you you cannot go to outside the network, right? But when I
hit this packet, the computer is going to check my
my gateway. Now when I click on the
ping, so you can see we have ICMP packet. So this when I click on the packet, you
can see this is ICMP. But I don't have layer 2 information. Okay. So you can see the next stop is unreachable. The
next top IP address is not in the you can read even this line the destination IP address if it is very small I can uh
I cannot zoom in here I think let me try no the packet I cannot zoom but I can
copy and show you in the notepad what is written over here okay okay lens cut
use
30 yeah realize okay so the destination IP
2.2 tool is not in the same subnet and is not a broadcast address. So we need a
gateway right we need a gateway to go outside the network
and that okay after that I note that I want to go to router first and the
router IP will be checked in the ARP table. So
what is ARP? I need a MAC address because if I want to forward a packet I need a MAC address because without MAC
address I cannot forward. Why? Because remember you are going from 1.11.12
okay you're going from 1.11 to 2.2 two. So it means you have a very big packet.
Okay, it is a small packet but I'm creating it big so that you understand. So source IP I want to go from 192
168.11 right and I want to go to destination IP
192 168.2.2 two, right? So now I need my address
also because these are like this is my source. This is your destination. This is like a railway track. I want to
forward my packet from this railway track from here to here. And all these
are like your railway stations. Okay. You will stop here, then you will stop here, then you will stop here, then you
will stop here. Okay? So these are your railway stations. You it is like your
transit area. Okay? you will go okay you will have like just a five five minute
stop to reach your destination right but when I forward that I want to go from.11
to2 but how my computer forward to this router first and why router will forward
to this router okay why router so how they are forwarding from one router to another router so they are using the MAC
addresses Okay. So end to end what what helps you
to communicate end to end communication end to end communication you are doing with the IP address but uh what we call
that router to router or hop by hop hop to hop because this is called one hop
second hop right hop to hop communication is possible with the MAC address. So it means if I want to go
from this computer to this router I need router MAC address right. So when I
create my first packet, when I create my first packet, I know my
computer MAC address. Suppose the computer MAC address is maybe a A example. Okay, just an example. Uh I
this is not the correct MAC address. This is just for example. This is my computer MAC address a A1 2 3 2 whatever
20 kind of but I don't have MAC address of router. So what we will have to do if
I don't have the MAC address of router and why I need MAC address of this
router because this is my gateway. If I want to go outside the network I need
gateway MAC address. So when I don't have the MAC address of gateway I will forward this green packet
which is ARP. Okay. So it means first I send ARP I will get the MAC address of
router. I will store in my ARP table. Then I will forward the packet to the router.
Clear? Okay. So let me show you.
So if I forward this packet now you can see this is ICMP and this is ARP. So
which packet will go first? ICMP or ARP? Tell me guys in the chat. ARP. Right. So
we will forward this green packet first. Okay, in the ARP this is a broadcast
that's why it is going to this laptop but this laptop is saying I'm not 192 1681.1
router accepted the packet because the router packet is 41.1 you can see okay
so this is ARP request now Dilli will give the ARP reply so DIY will forward
ARP reply and now my router is ready to forward this ICMP packet you can see
from my computer to the gateway MAC address right you can see so it means I
will forward this packet to my router now but router is not going to forward
the packet further because router is saying I don't have 2.2 in my routing
table because now router is going to check the routing table by checking okay
show ip route 2.2 two and router is saying oh I don't have this network in
my table and that's why the router is going to give you the unreachable
message this red packet this packet I cannot go and this is
another reply of your ping packet okay I cannot go so here is my
destination host unreachable reply Okay, router will drop but it will also prompt
you that okay this destination my 1.1 router is saying I cannot go destination
host unreachable right so that's the logic because we
have to make sure that router share their information with each other that's
why we are running a routing protocol Clearout
network engineer.
Okay. So we will configure routing so that all the routers will communicate with each other. Okay. So that is the
role of network engineers to configure routing so that routers talk to each other. They are good devices but not
smart right? So we have to make them smart by implementing routing.
Yes Shabas
sir in real life sir uh how we can configure let's suppose some one router
is in Delhi other router we are looking like this uh in the real
life what information we can get to connect to one router to other router
see first of all when you set up your company network right as I told you
these links are by ISP first you check one end to end another end so right now
you set up all the routers in different different offices then you ask ISP hey
ISP I want to connect from DI to Bangalore Bangalore to Hyderabad like this okay so there are multiple ways
okay that maybe you can have different different ISPs also in between them you can have same ISP also so
but how we take the access. Okay, suppose you are in Dilli office right now. You want to access the Bangalore
router to configure. So obviously you can because right now I cannot go to Bangalore even I cannot do TNET right
because I can do only Tnet when I'm able to ping that device. So tell me if I cannot ping can we tet that device?
No, we cannot TN net. So you have to call a field engineer or a technician in Bangalore. Hey technician, can you give
me the remote access team viewer any desk or or if he's a technical guy just
ask him to give the basic configuration there? Okay. Or just send the basic OPF
configuration and ask him to copy paste. Okay. So either send the configuration
or either take the remote off from there any desk remote desktop whatever.
Yes, we have the entire network and sometimes what we do companies they
don't know this thing and what they do they ask network engineers to take a
flight and go to Bangalore and just copy paste one configuration there the network engineers are enjoying
their life okay okay let me go to Bangalore and I'll fix the issue and they are just
because they already have the configuration they just go and copy paste yeah obviously there are some
problems okay If the network is already there then it can be a problem but if
you are doing a new site new implementation then it is not a problem
okay that's the logic okay so I remember so uh so when I joined Apple like before
that before coming before I u joined okay so there the previous year
implementation done by engineers and they visited all the sites okay like they went to Bhneshwar. Uh
there was a Bhneshwar or yeah I think one site V probe Bhneshwar
is the Apple client. So they were doing the Apple maps configuration and all. So like three four locations they go and
they have configured the routers mounted the routers and they have done the copy what we call the basic uh setup and then
when I joined I just saw like why the last year people have went to different different location why we cannot
configure from one place okay so then uh they realized yeah let's do it remotely
so they enjoyed free trade definitely from company money it is like wasted is the same project
can be done in uh maybe one month they have done maybe in two months that's the this is what we call implementation
projects okay implementation projects that first the first role of implementation project is ISP you make
sure you uh you apply for the ISP connection from one location to another like 1 2 3 4 5 okay almost in this
scenario if you have the same design you need to apply five ISP connections
Five ISP connections. Okay. So when you have five ISP connection like end to end like one from
DIY to good to Bangalore. Obviously they are not like this is not the actual
cable. Okay. So understand from if two routers are connected they are
not connected like this. Okay. So maybe they are coming from uh
from ISP towers what we call that.
Okay.
Okay. So consider these are the modems. Okay. So these are the modems or kind of
a connectors and all. So this is ATL di office. Okay. Or any location. Suppose
this is DIY office. So DI atal is going to give you the cable.
Okay. And then the another office.
Okay. So another office maybe this is your Mumbai. Okay. So consider this is Mumbai. So Mumbai also has given the
connection from ATAL office to a router. So actually the cables so these ISP
cables are already under fiber cables. A lot of cables are uh implemented right
they have taken the permissions everything everything is already configured from Delhi to Mumbai by ATAL
with very high fiber cables. Yes or no?
Yeah. So just you apply for connection and with ISP create some VPN tunnels,
VPN, MPs all these tunnels. So basically this is how they connected. But in the
packet tracer we like do like this. Okay.
Okay. But this is the real connectivity. Okay. So this is the real connectivity.
But what is going on? This is the ISP connectivity. But ATLE has given us a uh
cables and they just ask you to ping from one. So basically they have created
a tunnel. Tunnel means they have done some configurations and all in simple
language and they have connected your one location with another location with their fiber cables and on top of it they
are running some MLS, L3VPN, L2VPN okay or other type of connectivity.
Clear? Okay. In the real world, but we see them
that is a single link. Okay. But in actually these are going
from the modems to their fiber cables and the very complex uh
like uh obviously we cannot add ISP right now but I hope you got the point
how they are connected right that's the main logic. So whenever we configure EGRP, OPF, E, MS whatever basic basic
things or EGRP or OPF we configure in such a way that okay this is how we
connect. No but in real world you should first do the physical connectivity. If
your physical connectivity is there then there is no problem guys. Okay. But at
the end of the day network engineers have to login in all the routers and give the IP address. Make sure you go
and ping the DI. Okay, this is your DIY router. You check first ping the Mumbai
router after connectivity. Okay, I'll ping the Delhi to Mumbai. And
now if I'm able to ping yes, it means my ISP has connected the cable properly.
Okay, you can check with the ping. This is called a layer three checking. If you want to check layer two, you can check
show ip interface brief. And if this cable is okay, if this cable is okay,
the both things will show you one up up. So this status is called layer one.
Okay, means your port is up, your cable is okay. And if it is showing down because if I go to Mumbai side and if
one of the interface FA00 I make it shut down from one side. Okay. So now if you
come delete and check you can see it is showing you up here. It means your
connectivity is fine but there's a down from other side. It is your layer 2
connectivity is not there. So it is up and down. So it means remote site is not
operational. So you can ask a Mumbai engineer. Hey Mumbai engineer give no shutdown command.
No shutdown command is given. Then router will again check. Okay now I can
see the port is up. After that you ping then after if ping is not working. Okay,
suppose router in the router the technician
has not given IP address and now the interface will show you op but when you
try to ping you cannot ping.
Okay. So when you are not able to ping and port is operational it is means layer 2 connectivity is okay. Okay.
layer 1 connectivity is okay because your ports are operational but when you ping and check the AR table do you see
okay so this is the previous MAC address but you will not see the MAC address of this router IP in the MAC address in the
ARP table of router and when you don't see this MAC address okay it means okay
ask technician okay give the IP
okay so then he is going to configure that IP Okay sir 23.2 two we have given.
So he will copy paste he will whatever you ask or take any desk give the IP
okay so no shutdown is already given and this is how we finally troubleshoot it is this means every site means you have
to contact five different technicians to speak with you interact with you and
make sure your physical connectivity is okay you are able to ping from one location to another locations okay so
when you get the ping it means your di to Mumbai connectivity is okay then you check Mumbai to Pune, Pune to Bangalore,
Pune to Hyderabad. This is how the implementation projects going on. Clear?
Yeah. Now basic troubleshooting, basic ping, everyone we are able to ping from
the router two, router to six, router means everyone is ready just we have to make sure they speak with each other and
that's why we do OPF. Okay. Now the OPF body
Okay. So now in router three very simple very simple easy configuration I'm
teaching you guys. Okay. Tell me FA router Dilly. Dilly router zoom in.
Dilly router both cables are in which area? Area
500. Okay. So you simply say IPOSP here.
After that you put a number here that is called process ID. Okay. You can 1 2 3. It is just a process like you have a uh
activity monitor task manager. Now like in your computer you have a task
manager right? You know now task manager right? So you can see task manager what
all things are running. You can see all even my zoom has a process ID 1357 in
the computer right you can see every application craft Google drive whatever
I'm running every process has a process ID the same way you just have enter you
just enter the process ID like I'm doing OSPF 1 okay you can run multiple
processes also like OPF 1 OPF 2 OPF 3 okay we'll discuss when we start VRF or
MS okay so Right now you just make sure we configure OSP 1 and then you say okay
which area tell me FA 0 delete this router
this link also 500 this link also 500 so you say IPOSP 1 area 500 that's it very
simple configuration FA01 which is my LAN port which is also IPOP 1 area 500
that's Okay. So it means I'll go to my interfaces.
I'll go to my both interfaces. I can give a range also. Range command. IPOPF.
IPOSPF one area 500. That's it.
Right. So we configured 500 here. So it means
if the because switch is not we this is layer two not layer three. So in this
switch we do not have to configure OPF and we cannot even configure this is a layer to switch. Okay. So now if I have
given 500 this side so this location router 2 fa 000 should be also
500 because router facing each other router 500
router ports facing each other should be in same network. So router to fa00 is
going to be router to fa00 is also going to be IPOP1
area 500. Right? But this router is going in the
router area zero. Okay. And if I make this router this link area zero.
Okay. So this side is area 0. Obviously this router should be in area zero and
this link this link between this router this both side is area 500
right. So now router two is considered what? If this router is area zero area
500 router 2 is my ABR. Yes. So if I go
to FA01, FA01 I say IPOPF1
area 0 one link in 500 which is connecting
towards Deli and OPF area 0 on FA01 which is connected towards router 6
which is area zero right. So router 2 go to router 2 fa0 0 IPOP of 1
area 500 and fa01 iposp of 1 area zero. Clear everyone
if I have given this side area zero. So router 6 fa0 should be in area zero. And
this is also router one and router this is also zero because this is backbone.
Okay. So now I'll go to router 6.
Router 6 fa00 0 is also zero and fa01 is also
zero. Simple router 6 both interfaces are in area zero. Now router one area
zero and this now it is your choice router four remember from here we are
coming this is area 600 between these routers I will configure area 600
right listen to me very carefully guys now if I configure this area 0
if I configure this router one and router for area zero Then which router will become area?
Router 4.
But if I make this area 600 then which router will become ABR
router one. Okay. Clear? Now I totally understand
that router which particip now router one is area zero on the left side and if I configure this side 600 this will
become ABR but if I configure again this is zero. Okay so this zero this is area
zero this side and this is 600. So router four will become ABR
this be router interface different area the router which participate in multiple
area that is ABR clear so let's say I will configure router one
router one is also both side area zero
fa01 because in this case I'm making the router 4 ABR. So if I make router 1 area
0 area 0. So router 4 will become this interface f00 area 0 and fa01 in area
600. Okay. So that area router 4
router 4 f00 is in area zero but fa01 is in 600.
Okay. So it means router 5 f00 is also
f00 is also 600 and obviously I will put my LAN interface also in the 600.
Clear? So we have configured router two. Router
6 is pending. So, router 6 both interface area zero config fa00 0 IPOP 1
area 0. FA01 IP OSP 1 area 0. So that means the
router which configured with both interfaces in different area. Yes. Yes. Summit correct. Router with the
different interfaces different areas interfaces is APR. Like
router 2 is my ABR and here router 4 is my ABR but router 6 router one are my
backbone routers. So we configured here this router also
both interfaces interface uh range fa0 01
IP OSP1 area what would be better making a nothing
it's your choice depends on the company scenario to scenario just remember one
thing that we have to make any any interface in area zero that will become
ABR because if you have ABR then only your area will be able to communicate with different area. Okay. So whether
you make this router ABR or whether you make this router ABR you should have ABR. That's the logic.
Okay. So you can see the neighborhip message
is coming here. The neighborhip is saying loading full and all. So now I'll
go to router four. I'll go to router 4 and say
uh configure t f a 000 IPOSPF1
area 0 f a01 IPOPF1
area 600. Okay.
So this is what we have done and router 5 is pending FA00 600 both interfaces 600 because the last
router fa00 and one iposp 600 area 600
so now we have done everything guys configure we have done the configuration
just one single command on every interface just make sure you create a boundary So okay so what we have to
think about what we have to brainstorm before we do a lab okay that okay I have
to make sure that I'll put my middle routers in area 0. So there is a logic right area 500 cannot talk to area 600
without area 0. If I want to talk to area 600 I'll go to area 0 then area 0
will go in the 600 area. Right? So that's the super goal. Now the second is
I have to make my topology in such a way that one area should connect to another
area like this. So this is what I have created and now you understand that I put two
routers in area 0, two routers in area 500, two routers in a 600. very simple
lab but anyhow whether you make this router ABR whether you make ABR whether you make this router ABR or this router
that does not actually issue okay you can go with any choice it's a very
simple small lab okay so right now the only
recommendation I'm doing just remember one thing it is not about which is just
very important thing please check these links So if this side is zero area this should
be zero. If this link is zero one side this is also zero. If this is zero this
is also zero. Can you see the streamline 0 0 0 everywhere? And now if it is 500
if this link is 500 this opposite side also 500. Right? And if this link is 600
this opposite side is also 600. This is what I have configured. command command go to all those
interfaces. Okay, go to FA00 or FA01.
Remember IPOSPF process ID 1 and give the area whatever
area. So this interface, this interface, this interface, this interface, this interface, this interface area zero
command. This single command in all six interfaces and these two interfaces of
router to router DIY, you will give IP OPF area
OPF1 area 500. And these two interfaces you give IP OPF one area 600 guys.
Yeah, screen is smaller so that you see the full picture. Okay, if I zoom in then I'll not be able to show you this.
But don't worry, I'll be putting this link in the
notes.
Okay, so you just go and zoom in. Zoom in.
Clear IPOP one is a processor ID. I told you I think you do not understand
process is like I'm if I check show processes CPU
okay show processes I should see a router process also or OPF.
Okay. So show processes.
Okay, the command is not working here. But somehow if I check here, OPF, OPF,
OPF, STP is showing me, I should see OPF also.
Okay. So, some advanced commands packet tracer is not showing properly. But yes, you can see DHCP is running because we
have configured DCHCP on this router. Okay. But yes, uh you can check show
processes CPU and you can check uh the command is show processes CPU include
OPF and then it will show you all the OPF processes. This is the command. Note it down
if you want. Show processes CPU include OPF. This will show all the OPF is
running. If you run one, it will show you one or two uh one or two processes.
But if you run multiple OPF, it will show you multiple.
Okay, remember what I told you that OPF is going to create a neighbor. Let me
check router 3 is neighbor with router two or not. Yeah, router three, router two, router three, router two are
neighbors or not. Show ipos spf neighbor right now you can see 26.2
is my neighbor which is showing me in the table the 26.2 two is my neighbor.
Okay. So, it is a full neighborhip. Full means full. We are full the best
friends. Right now you understand full means best friends. Okay. So, we are best friend of each other. Okay, that's
it. And I check are we creating any database table? Let's see. Are we
creating database? Yes. Can you see all these information? router network let's
say somebody else means all the information about all the networks all the networks we are getting in this
router and that information is given by 26.2
26.2 is router 2 right
okay focus on here so 2.0 which is my Bangalore IP 2.0 0 all that information
all these subnets are getting from 26.2 and 26.2 is my router 2 and router 2 is
my ABR any information all the networks
information is given by ABR router
clear 26 1452.0 zero everything I'm getting
from the ABR router. Okay, leave all the things just I want
to ping server. Earlier I was not able to ping the
server. Let's see if I'm able to ping the server now. Let's see.
Got the ping how easy it is like static routing if
you have done or maybe EGRP is already very simple but OSP is more simple,
right? So basically in the real industry we configure like this. Okay. But in
many many I have seen lot of trainers what they do they configure network commands make the OPF very complex. But
in the real world this is how we configure OPF in the real world. We have other way also if you want me to
explain that that is like you just go here type here router Osp1
and type the network address of this subnet like we have done EGRP right. So
the same way like EGRP but here instead of subnet mask we give the wild card
mask opposite of subnet mask like if you have 32550 you have to say 0 0255
and then you have to say area okay you have to put in area 500.
If I have another network 192 168 1.0 then wild card mask then you have to say
area 500. Are you getting me guys? This is another
way to configure OPF on all the routers. Okay, if you want I can or let me add a
core here if you want to configure. Okay, so DHCP I'll move further.
Okay, DCPus, [Music]
Huh?
Okay. So now if I have to configure router 2, router 2.
So 200.1.23 and 200.1.26.
This is the command. Uh 223 and 526 in
area 0. So you have to say area 0 like this. age but in a network command. That's it.
Let me add
Okay. So, router one. Yes, I'll discuss about ACLN NAT ACL
class. We have discussed about wild card mask. Okay. So, we have 26 and 20
16 and both are zero.
So now router one uh 16 and 14. 14 and 16. Okay. Both are
area zero. Uh router 4
45 and 14 14 in area zero. 45 in 600.
If I miss the or keyword just add yourself.
Okay. So 45 in area 600 and 292.
[Music] 2.0 is also in area 600. Okay. So if you
configure this way also you will be able to ping the devices.
Yeah. If I configure OSP1 inter my interface is large but I want to advertise only.
How you will advertise? If your interface is 24 you want to advertise only 28.
Yogesh how you do it? Have you done that earlier?
The router will always share the exact subnet mask what you configured.
If you have 128 here, even with the network this this command, you do not
have to do anything. But here in the wild card mask, you have to make this
127. This is the actual problem with the wild card. If you have a company with
subnets, then you have to modify your wild card mask in such a way the network
commands becomes complex and complex. But with the interface mode you do not
have to do anything. Just give this command. Whether it is zero, whether it is 28, whether it is anything, any
subnet mask, just give this command. The router will pick that information automatically.
That's the beauty of interface commands. Rafi passive will discuss another lab.
Right now just a basic lab how we configure it. Okay. and what is basic
OPF and we'll discuss OPF uh I think five more classes OPF
so this month dedicated no this month is going to over but next
two weeks dedicated also for OPF
okay so we cannot finish that in two classes at least four minimum and it can
go up to Okay, I think I'll try to check. See,
I'll go with the best knowledge. I'm not going to rush. That's that you already know me, right?
I just want to give the best of my knowledge. So, can we configure OSP
while configure IP on IP and interface?
IP and interface numbered interface you're talking about? Yes, we configure that.
Okay. So this is all about today guys and I'm going to save this in my PC as
OPF but I want you to let me reset the lab
first. I removed every configuration. Now I'm giving this file to you
OPF assignment. Okay. So I'll be going here in the live
live portal. In the live portal I'll go and create
assessment. I'll try OSPF lab
marks. uh let's say 50 start time today
from now onwards end time let me give you this week at least because I'm not
expecting you cover in one day
okay assessment is added guys just go here okay download this packet tracer
file file. Upload the file. That's it. Okay,
let's see how many of you are going to come with the ping everything OPF and
all. Okay. So, and what I'm doing,
I just want all of you, okay, please do not uh copy paste the
commands because I'm not going to give you today how you will copy paste.
I'm not going to give you the commands. Sorry.
by topic.
Uh yes guys now you can ask questions.
Okay. So my rule if you want to ask me question first I will ask question.
Come come. Okay sir. Yes. Who is this?
Yes, Su. How are you? I'm fine. Okay. So, tell me something about uh TCP
and UDP. TCP is connection oriented.
UDP is connectionless. TCP
[Music] short testp.
Okay. Now ask question.
There are people who don't understand. Yes. Yeah. Please ask else will kill me.
No, no. I will I will not kill you. Tell me
by English. English. Okay. Okay. Okay.
In singular can is
it mean? My question is I'll explain English. He is not
comfortable.
single area border area border router multiple
a so he's asking in single area can we have ABR yes we can have ABR but in
single area okay your question is I got it is your point if you have one single
area like area zero all are zero Okay, if all routers are area zero, how
you will make ABR? So the answer is no. In single area we cannot have ABR. Okay,
so I thought in a different way your question earlier. So a area may in one single area you cannot have ABR.
Sir. Okay. Yeah. Yes. Jump sheet. Jump sheet. Uh sir, actually today is my
first class. Mhm. Welcome. Okay. Uh so I just need to
know whether we have completed many classes or I can catch up. Just need to
So I don't know about uh how you will be going to learn. So yes but you have
joined OS uh NRC right? Hello.
Hello. Hello. Yeah. See actually completed right? Four or five.
No no no. What I'm talking about? You joined from OPF. You joined from an RC from where? From where you joined?
No, today like OPF. Yeah, if you have joined OPF today first day of OPF class.
Okay. Previously like uh we have covered previously nothing that is not part of
the OPF BGP MS batch. That is my CCNA or an RC. CCNA or Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. So basically what I do what we do see we uh run a batch where we
take CCNA plus NRC. So some students they join from the CCNA with me some
students join with from the NRC with me like they cover EGRP or other topics and
some students join from with me OSP joined with NRC. Yeah. So yes if you have joined from an
RC definitely we have covered the EGRP topic if just watch the videos if you
have any questions in EGRP ask me. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
And any lab we have started or OPF is day one EGRP we have completed.
No no actually we started lab in this packet racer only right? Not the real no no no no
we will do our labs also but this is first class OS that's why we we have
done because I want you to see the packets and all that's why I have done the packet today.
Okay. So one more thing actually I just need to know uh in the uh for the port
to enable some MAC uh that will be covered uh in which what
for example uh uh we are blocking the uh uh this one port we will block uh uh all
the connectivity so we we are adding VLANs this one MAC address to the VLAN
no so that will be covered in which section like so are you asking about Port security.
Yeah. Means uh yeah for the some security purpose uh normally we are blocking the
in the like uh we go to the switches and give some commands like uh port security
and if any computer if any computer attach that port gets blocked right?
No. Yeah. Yeah. Blocked. So we will enable that MAC address so he can use the system. So that commands will come.
So port security topic we have covered in the CC days. I think uh in an RC it
is more of OPF BGP MS all this stuff. But what I'll do
that can be in port security right? Yeah. Yeah. Port security we have done in the C just a few month a few weeks
back in the batch. Uh so what I'll do in the in RC I'll add the port security
video for you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. But it is like more of
switching is on the encore side if you ask me. Yeah. Okay. I just need to know which uh
switching this. Yeah. Enor cover sport security VTP STP
all these things again. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. In real life sir how we can determine or
Yeah. Shabbaz one question from you? Yes sir. In real life how
my question to you first? Yes sir. Tell me. Okay. Tell me. Dora process.
What is DHCP? Dora process. Tell me.
Dura
open question ask me uh in real life how we can determine
this router is in able to what is called neighbor router let's suppose one router
is in other router is in Delhi other is in Hyderabad so if this router will be
able to make neighbor or neighborh neighbor host.
How we will understand first before anything happens in the company they design the network.
Okay. So understand before I implement a project before I create a big scenario
of my company I create a diagram okay or a topology okay we will have four
locations we will have four routers with this model we have to buy okay then we have to buy these switches so first we
do the project planning okay so prepare first plan after that planning then
implement are you getting my point so prepare planning designing, implementation, then
configuration, then the troubleshoot comes in the last.
So first we plan how we are going to do, how which ISPs we have to connect. Then
we ask ISP to provide the cables. Those cables we will add in the routers and we
will check from one location to another location both are reachable. One location can ping another location or
not. If they cannot ping, you can again go to ISP. they will fix the issue. So
once the fiber cable is okay between both the locations then you give the IP then you ping. So once you ping then you
check all the locations from one end to one end and when all the routers can ping each other then you configure
routing on top of it and then routing protocol can share all information with each other.
Yes sir. Got it or not? Yes, I got it sir.
So are you asking like how I take the remote access of the router of DI to
Mumbai? We can take the Yeah.
No in the initial days you cannot take puty right then you have to do something different.
So what what is that? That is like suppose you're on Delhi router. Okay. So what I'll do uh one
thing I can explain you one more thing. Let me show you.
Okay. Let me show you another trick. Okay. So just hold on. Recording is going on now. Okay. So suppose this is
the same lab we have. Okay. And uh right now let me open that OPF. Uh where is
that?
Yeah. Okay. So, this is my lab and I'm able to ping, right? So, you say
I can ping, right? Let me see.
Uh, okay. reachable.
Okay, we got the IP. Okay, so see we are not getting DHCP IP. Yeah, we got the
IP. Now go to the server. Server has a static IP. Now we can see if I'm able to
ping. Okay. So directly do not go and check
the OPF. First check from the computer level. Now you can see the ping. Sometimes you
do not have to check OPF again and again. This is a bad habit.
Okay. Checking from top to bottom is not a good approach sometimes. Okay. So now
what I have to do suppose E OPF is not configured maybe in Bangalore.
Okay. So Bangalore has no OPF. I'll say no router OPA1. we have deleted
it. Okay. And now I am on the DIY or any router or maybe any computer.
So I cannot ping obviously because that one of the router configuration OPF is
not running here. So obviously I cannot ping right. I cannot ping because router
5 is isolated. It is separated from my OPF. But still I want to go and
configure in Bangalore. Okay. So what I'll do I'll configure a TNET.
Okay. So basically this is the first thing whenever we give IP in my initial configuration I'll make sure I configure
Tnet. Remember this is this is the thing I have not added that time. But remember
whenever you give IP address this is like mandatory for me that I configure
the TNET like login local. Okay. So that
is uh username like maybe
password and enable password.
Okay. So Okay. Okay. So I copy paste all these commands and I'll copy paste in every
router. Remember because in the initial in the initial configuration when I set
up my IP I ask a technician I will also ask hey technician please copy paste
this configuration also. He will go and copy paste the configuration or he will
do the any desk whatever and you and technician is not ready every day
right you have to fix a call with him then speak with him if it is a big
company even technicians are highly paid right you cannot just
say hey man go there go there go where he said do yourself don't ask me again
and again I'm busy in another project.
Okay. So now you can see we have done the tnet everywhere right. So what we will do
now even if I have Bangalore even this location let's say this is Pune even
I'll remove Ospia from here. Let me remove OSP from everywhere because I'll
configure every from zero to again without going to the
router.
Even my first location is not running OPF. Okay. So obviously I am in Delhi.
So I can configure my router with OPF. Yes or no? Yes.
configure office right so DIY router is my router
I can configure anytime right so once I configure Delhi router ISP will give me
the link I will just make sure a technician has given the basic IP but he
is not on the site but we have already tet so we go to Delhi and do one thing
TN net tet the di to Mumbai IP 20123.2.
Okay. Username. Password. Router name is also password. Okay. I'm
in the router 2. I go here and say interface fa00 IPOP
1 area 500 interface FA01 IPOP 1 area.
IPOP 1 area 0. Right. Router three. I'm
in the router three now. Router three. Let's tet router 6.
Tnet inside TNET 200.1.26
matrix.
Okay. Okay. So I'm in the router 6 now. Okay. So go to FA 0 both interfaces
FA 0 and one IPOP 1. Question
[Music] router 6. Okay. Now I'll go to because I cannot go to router one because from
this computer router I cannot go here because these routers are not connected
with each other. But directly connected routers are physically connected with the IP. So I'm going like jumping from
one router to another router.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. Hello. So, f00 all done. My I am on the router
one. Okay. So, remember I was in router three and I tetate from router 3 to
router two to router 6 to router one and I configured router six. I have uh done
this configuration and I'll do not come outside router six because if I go to
previous router like maybe if I come to router 2 right I am in the router 2 and
if I try to tate this router I will not be able to do that hopefully let's see
tnet 200.16.1
see I cannot tent from router two to this router also. So obviously I cannot
tell it from this. So hop by hop you have to go and see see I cannot go. So
obviously I have to go to router 6 first and do the tnet to that router first.
Okay it's very complicated for the initial time but once you configure routing protocol there is no problem.
But even with the routing protocol is not working, you can still configure from vi to a number of routers by doing
going tnet to tnet to tet
200.16.1. Okay. So
enable Okay. All these basic configuration is
done copy paste one time because maybe you decided OPF later on
or you want to communicate if you want you can send in the initial configuration.
Okay. So router one now uh obviously interface uh range fs 0 0 to 1
IP OSP of 1 area zero. Okay. So now I do tet to router uh four.
Okay. So don't do multiple exit side else you will come back to router 6. Okay.
So tell to now router 4 which is 200.1.14.4
third OPF configuration. Third time
FA01 IP OSP 1 area 600.
Okay. So I'm in the router 4. Now OPF done here. Let's jump on to Tnet.
Tet 200.145
uh 5. This is the last router guys.
IP OS 301 area. So make sure you do the right
configuration else if you put a wrong area you have to go back to five routers
because that router will not maybe till fourth router you will be able to ping but uh in between router don't do this
mistake yeah correct
Okay. Sometimes technician do not help us that's why this is like backup procedure but one time first initial
configuration is mandatory and that is like obviously we have to do that.
Okay. Okay. So we have done the OPF configuration and right now you cannot see the logs. It is not showing you
neighborhip is up and all. So for that I think uh you can give a command here
logging terminal.
What is that command? Logging monitor in the line vi
logging synchronous no console is a different command that is for puty. So
nakshi that is for uh synchronize message and all. I think this is the
command where it will show you the tn net all these messages. Still one more
command I think logging
logging uh
console this command should be both synchronous also console also and if you
configure OPF and all it will show you okay so let's configure pin 2.2 two
again. See tough job little bit but anyhow we have
uh configured it. So
good question.
Yeah. Any other question guys? So I have one question. Yeah. Vimlum I think.
Yes. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. So
the topology that you just show us right like configure the OSPF on the interface.
Mhm. Let's take it as if it's a multi-layer switch and you have like multiple SVI
like sign right you're not this switch is let's say like 3550 let's say you have
like an 300. Yeah I got it. Yeah got it. So ask like how you configure in SVI you are asking.
Yes. So is it I'll show you in the lab. I'll configure one big lab like uh where a mix of SVA
everything we'll try to configure. Okay. Because that is how the real industry works and
I'll give you that knowledge also. Don't worry. Okay. And also like so I I I have like
I know a setup right so let's say all their remote
areas or all their remote offices are set to area zero right
can you can you give me a reason why it was like let's say if they are going to
open like a new remote area right OPF area will be in area zero they won't
do like area 500 here and do like area 600 here like all the
so I got your question so maybe somehow you have a new area here but area zero
is not connected but you want to connect with 500 right no my question is so your topology I
just show us right it has like different like area 500 like area this for
yeah yeah this is the topology yes so let's say this one remote office
right like the Delhi right and there is another remote office right this is area 500 and this is area 600
right but I'm saying like I have seen a setup right where like in uh Delhi it will be
in area zero and also I don't know the other name like Bangla
I don't know that will also be in area zero do you know the reason Right.
See, you are saying Delhi should be in area zero. This is what you're saying. Yes. Like I've seen a setup like this
before, right? And I'm actually Yeah, you can have you can have zero also here. No problem in that. But uh
are this router in 500 or it is also zero? No. So let's say it's a multi-layer
switch, right? It's not like routers. It's a multi multilayer switch. So then they so basically their area is like
this hole is area zero then in their case. Yes. So let me let me see let me explain
how the setup. So you have like a router right. So there will be like a multi-layer switch right one remote side
then the LAN will connect from that side from the switch right it won't be like uh you doing your
routing on the router you're doing the OPF between the switch and the router. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm.
And like they communicate to the another side like through SD1, right? They using
SD. Mhm. So I'm asking like why do they do like area zero instead of like doing 50 here?
Will there be like any reason for that? So they have multiple area zeros or they
have one single area zero. That's I'm asking they have one area zero. So let's say if
this is like remote area all the OPF like all the setup is like area zero. If
you go to another setup like another remote office Mhm. Mhm.
It's also like what the network which is there is also area zero right.
Mhm. So yeah that is possible that is possible maybe what they have done they are
having a tunnel from one location to another and they are using in Delhi area zero and then maybe in Bangalore also
they have a area zero so that is that is also possible when you have GRE tunnel
MS all this stuff yeah they are using SD1 right yeah SD1 also it is possible somehow see
what I recommend you all see go and check OPF design on Google okay and
check how these designs are working right now if you check here right there
is a area zero here and there is a large scale company called like a large scale hub like maybe this is head office and
all this is also another area this is also another area now if you check this like three routers in area one this
router is in area zero this is area two and you know this is area border routers right router three right so now if you
see this one this is a Huawei website and if you understand this is how the
real industry scenarios uh looks like. So on top of that we have internet links
these are the routers and there is a uh layer three switch kind of and where
these this switch is running like OPF in three routers first three routers.
Okay so just hold on. So now if you see
so these three routers are in the core of my office. This is my main router.
This is also my main router. This is my multilayer. All three are in which area? Area zero. And this multilayer is going
to another switch like building one. The whole building I'm putting in area 10.
The another building I'm putting it in area 20. The another building I'm putting it in area 30. So this is again
one of the scenario. This is like from the Huawei right. So depends there are
hundreds of designs available. So just you have to check okay OPF design or
maybe you can try case study or something when you go deep dive in OPF. So you will see some more technological
documents where you try to understand the scenario because when you understand the scenarios. So now there are NSS and
all right now this topic I have not covered but uh you can always check if
you are not able to understand any design let me know we can have uh discussion on that.
Now if you see this one, this is again from one of uh the website link. And now
what we understand here, it is a simple design. Yeah. So you can see we have uh
area 10 here. Yeah. Can you see that? Yeah. This is area 10. This is area 51. This
is area 201. But somehow this is area 0. So
automatically you can say that this trinity router is area zero router right?
This new router is ABR. Yes or no? This
is ABR because it is connecting area 10 here. This is area 0. Right? So Neo is ABR for
area 10 and area 0 and trinity router is ABR because this is area 0. This left
side is 51, right side is 201.
Okay, are you getting my point? Yeah, I'm getting your point. But my question is like what would be the interest for them to let's say for this
design, right? For all of them to be in. So do one thing uh what I recommend you
just create a packet tracer picture or show me some diagram uh because I'm not
able to imagine how the network is uh looking like. So it will take your 5
minutes just create a packet tracer scenario and uh just uh if you have you
want to ask now you can create now or if you have time you can ask on the ask portal. Okay.
Okay. Yeah. Any other question guys? Yes
sir. It is network engineer choice to make which area as area zero or some conditions belong that
company. If it is a small company you are the expert of your company bro do whatever you want but if it is a big
company then there are network designers okay where there if you know the people
like network consultants network architects have you heard about this positions? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So these people design the whole topology, designing everything. So if you are a network engineer, your goal is
to implement and conf implementation is configuration only. Implementation and
troubleshooting. But you are not you are not going to create the designs everything of your company till the time
you do particular there's no particular condition for the area zero. No, you can
make means we can implement any combination of router as area zero which
is combining with other areas. OPF design.
If I show you that is beyond uh your level right now. But still if you want
to see just hold on
Just one minute I'm trying to check. So basically once you learn CCNP, CCI
enterprise it means you are ready to configure the OPF you are doing you are
ready to implement the OPF but there are some design practices when you start
learning maybe uh CCDP which is Cisco certified design
professional and here in this labs they will mean in the books everywhere it is
also created like how the OPF is going to configure figure now. Now you can see design scalable OSPF design. So this is
a CCDP or CCDE level where we understand
okay so what could be the design how we configure the areas how many routers in
an area I'm trying to give you that all information you can see I told you 50 routers right
yes but in normal CCNP CCI book you will not
see this 50 routers per area because we have gone through to these documents somehow in the previous years that's why
I know okay up to 50 routers there is no problem okay when I told you like when we configure CPU and all okay so
uh let me check if we have any LSA flooding and all
yeah you can see the design for these the number of areas LSA database the
number of routers you can see they are talking about the LSA flooding right yes
yeah and when we talk about LSA flooding. If you keep scrolling down, they will talk about
how these uh things factor. You can see result of tuning the LSA.
This is the throttle or what we call LSA flooding issue. So how they are able to tackle the LSA flooding situation and
all. Okay. Or tuning OPF LSA throttle timers. So all these things related to
how we actually going to design the network. So like obviously the people
who are CCNP, CCIE they go for one another certification in the market
which is very popular that is CCDE Cisco certified design expert.
Okay. So these are the people and what is the
recommendation that what is the eligibility when you should go for this exam. So if you are going giving exam
like within 2 years, 3 years, four years, you will not be able to get the value of this certification. Okay. So if
you see or read the documents, CCI candidates are recommended to have 5 to
7 years of industry experience with designing and architecting network solution as well as engaging in other
related activities such as pre-sales work. So pre-sales the people who sell the solutions. Okay,
suppose you work for Cisco and you want to sell your Cisco devices to a big
company like HCL. You have to know the design knowledge. You need to understand the design perspective. You will read
their entire network's theory what they have configured. You will try to find the loopholes. Okay, maybe you will find
a loophole. Okay, your network is running with only three areas. Your CPU is going high. Your memory is going
high. You will do lot of research and then you will give them solution. They
will buy your latest devices and on top of it you will also configure their labs
or or maybe you will give them the solution how to make their company more reliable and sustainable. Got the point?
Network consultant level. Okay.
Okay. So pansal network engineer network security. Okay.
Okay. So get the industry experience or if you get time if you get any
opportunity try to check for pre-sales that is also a good job and if you get into pre-sales then move your career
into design. If you are already spent five 7 years uh in the routing switching
or as a network engineer you can either move to network security either you go for cloud security or you can try the
pre-sales or designing of these networks. Okay. [Music]
Uh shall we close for the day guys? Yes. Sorry. Question.

