Welcome back. In this lesson, I'll be talking about how AWS have designed their global infrastructure.
While AWS is a global cloud platform, it's actually a collection of smaller groupings of infrastructure
connected together by a global high-speed network.
As solutions architects, we can take advantage of this to design systems which are resilient to failure and highly available.
In this lesson, I want to introduce the infrastructure concepts of an AWS region, an AWS edge location and an AWS availability zone.
I also want to cover the various different ways that a service is resilient.
So a globally resilient service, a regionally resilient service and a zone resilient service.
By the end of this lesson, you'll understand what all of that means. So let's get started.
Now this is a rough approximation of the world and for anyone interested, I'm recording this lesson from here, a short distance from Brisbane in Australia.
At a global level, AWS have created their infrastructure platform to be a collection of individual infrastructure located worldwide.
The two types of deployment at this global level are AWS regions and AWS edge locations.
A region in the context of AWS doesn't directly map onto a continent or a country.
A region is a creation of AWS. It's an area of the world that they have selected and inside this region is a full deployment of AWS infrastructure.
This means compute services, storage, database products, AI, analytics and much more.
Now AWS add regions all the time, but at the time of creating this lesson, these include Northern Virginia, Ohio, California, Oregon in the US
and then Frankfurt, Ireland, London and Paris in Europe, Sao Paulo in South America and many more.
Now some countries have one region, other larger nations have multiple. It depends on the customer requirements in that country as well as its size.
Regions are geographically spread and this means that as a solutions architect, we can use these regions to design systems which can withstand global level disasters.
What's important to understand at this stage is that when you interact with most AWS services, what you're actually doing is interacting with that service in a specific region.
So Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud in Northern Virginia is separate from Elastic Compute Cloud in Sydney.
Now AWS can only deploy regions as fast as their business and local planning allows.
This means that you often can't have a region in the same town or city as all of your customers and for this reason, AWS also provide edge locations.
Edge locations are much smaller than regions and they generally only have content distribution services as well as some types of edge computing, but they are located in many more places than regions.
Edge locations are useful for companies like Netflix who need to store TV shows and movies as close to their customers as possible because this allows low latency and high speed distribution.
Generally, the further that data is located away from customers, the slower the transfer is and the higher the latency.
So edge locations are really useful to allow for fast, efficient data transfer.
Regions and edge locations are commonly used by a solutions architect in the same system.
A large company like Netflix might run its infrastructure from multiple regions worldwide, but its content could be stored in lots of edge locations, allowing it to be delivered at faster speeds.
In Australia, for example, we have an AWS region in Sydney, which is the capital of one of our states.
But if a customer of Netflix based in Melbourne, also in Australia, wanted to stream the latest episode of The Man in the High Castle, that could be streamed from an edge location in Melbourne.
And because the Melbourne edge location would be closer to that customer, the transfer of that content would be faster and would have lower latency.
Now, AWS have a really useful site that allows you to visualize the global AWS network.
Notice a few things on this map, how there are far fewer regions than edge locations.
And also notice how all of these regions are connected together using these high speed networking links.
And as we go through the course, I'm going to teach you the theory and demonstrate how this high speed networking, this private AWS networking, can be utilized for really efficient systems deployments in AWS.
What I also want to point out is how regions are presented within the AWS console.
So if I open up the console and if I go to the EC2 area of the console and then click on the region drop down on the top right of the screen, notice how with EC2 you have to pick a region.
If I move to a service which is global, such as IAM or Route 53, notice how this region selection doesn't apply because these are global services.
So some services are like their own individual deployments in each region, but there are some AWS services, far fewer admittedly, which act from a global perspective.
And I'll talk all about that as I go through the course.
Now regions are important beyond the resiliency that they provide, and I want to cover that next.
As a solutions architect, regions have three main benefits.
Firstly, each region is separate geographically.
It means that if something terrible should happen, such as a terrorist attack or a natural disaster, then a problem in one region wouldn't affect other regions.
It means that with AWS you have the ability to place infrastructure into one region and know that it won't be impacted by faults in another, and you have control over how far away those regions are.
Regions are designed to be 100% isolated, and this is one of the ways that AWS achieves fault tolerance and stability.
I'll discuss what both of those terms mean later in the course.
Another benefit is to do with the country that the region is located within.
You can select a region, and by doing so you have geopolitical or governance separation.
Whatever your political affiliation or governance system, by picking a region, you will be affected by the laws and regulations of the region that your infrastructure is stored in, so it provides that level of certainty.
In addition to that, AWS commit that if you place data in one region, then unless you configure it, it won't leave that region.
Now, there are some nuances to that which I'll make you aware of as we go through the course, but if you have an EU-based audience and place data in an EU region, you can be fairly certain that it won't, for example, end up in Australia or China.
You have to, in most cases, explicitly tell AWS that you're OK with data moving between regions, and I'll talk in detail about that as we go through the course.
Finally, from a more technical level, regions give you location control, which allows you to tune your architecture for performance.
You can place infrastructure as close to your customers as possible, even duplicating infrastructure into another region if the demand is there.
Consider Netflix. They have a global media streaming platform. They have infrastructure located all across the globe, located as close to their customers as possible.
Getting that 4K version of Game of Thrones is serious business, literally.
Now, regions aren't the only level of granularity available to us as Solutions Architects. There are things inside regions.
So what is inside a region? Let's look at that.
Before I talk about what's inside regions, when referring to a region, you generally do it in one of two ways.
You can use the region code, also known as the region, or the region name.
As an example, let's look at what AWS have in Australia.
Currently, there is one region located in Australia, and that's Sydney.
Its region code is AP Southeast 2, and its region name is Asia Pacific Sydney, often just abbreviated to Sydney.
Now, you should become comfortable with both of these, because the console UI often uses the region name,
while interacting with the CLI or APIs generally uses the region code.
I also mentioned earlier in this lesson that a region provides resilience.
If you have infrastructure in the Sydney region and a mirror of that infrastructure in the North Virginia region,
then if Sydney fails, it won't impact Northern Virginia.
We often need more granularity, though. Sometimes a failure is very localized.
And this is where another concept is introduced.
A lower level architectural component available within AWS, known as an availability zone, or AZ.
This is the Sydney region, and its region code is AP-Southeast-2.
Inside every region, AWS provide multiple availability zones.
It could be two, three, four, five, or even six.
In Sydney's case, it's currently three.
We have AP-Southeast-2A, 2B, and 2C.
With availability zones, you are given isolated infrastructure inside a region.
Availability zones are isolated compute, storage, networking, power, and facilities within a region.
If a region experiences an isolated issue, maybe a gas explosion or a power outage,
but if that issue is only in one area of that region, so one availability zone,
then whilst the services from one of those zones, so in this case 2A, would be impacted,
it'll probably leave the services in the other availability zones fully functional and available for usage.
Now as a solutions architect, you can design solutions which distribute components across multiple availability zones.
If you have a system which uses six virtual servers in Sydney, then you can place two in each AZ.
If one AZ fails, then four out of six servers remain operational.
It's a way of building resilience.
An availability zone is a logical thing inside AWS.
Some people like to think of an availability zone as a data center, but this isn't correct.
An availability zone could be one data center, but it could also be part of multiple data centers.
AWS don't give you visibility of what an availability zone is,
just that it's isolated from each of the other availability zones and connected with high-speed, redundant networking.
Services can be placed across multiple availability zones to make them resilient,
and one of the first services I'll be talking about soon is Virtual Private Cloud, or VPC,
which is a way to create a private network, and this can work across multiple availability zones to provide resilience.
Before I finish with this theory, there's one final thing that I want to make sure that you're comfortable with,
and that's how to define the resilience of an AWS service.
The resilience level of a service is described at a high level in one of three ways.
First, we have globally resilient services, and there are relatively few of those inside AWS,
because what this means is that a service operates globally with a single database, it's one product,
and its data is replicated across multiple regions inside AWS.
This means a region can fail and the service continues running.
It would take the world to fail for a globally resilient service to experience a full outage.
It means that the service is global, there isn't a concept of picking a region for a globally resilient service.
Now, examples of this include IAM and Route 53.
With both of those services, you don't select a region.
They can tolerate the failure of multiple regions without impacting service.
Next, we've got region-resilient services.
Now, these are services which operate in a single region with one set of data per region.
So you could create an RDS database in Sydney and one in Northern Virginia.
They're different. Region-resilient services operate as separate services in each region,
and they generally replicate data to multiple availability zones in that region.
So that means that if an AZ in a region fails, then the service can continue operating.
But if the region as a whole fails, then the service will fail.
Lastly, we've got AZ-resilient services, and these are services that are run from a single availability zone.
If the availability zone that that service is provisioned into fails, then that service will fail.
It's possible for hardware to fail in an availability zone and for the availability zone itself to continue working,
because AWS do have resilient storage systems, for example, inside an AZ.
But generally, AZ-resilient services are very prone to failure if you have any problems inside that availability zone.
Now, as Solutions Architects, we need to understand for each AWS service whether it's globally, region, or AZ-resilient.
As I go through the course, I'll be telling you which product offers which level of resilience.
Knowing this will help you answer a lot of exam questions, and it will make you an awesome Solutions Architect.
Now, these are all simple concepts, but it's really worth pausing at this point and making sure that you really understand
what a region is, what an edge location is, what an AZ is, and how services are globally, region, or AZ-resilient.
If you need to watch this video again, go ahead, it's worth the time.
But if you do understand, then go ahead and complete this video, and when you're ready, I'll see you in the next.
