Welcome to this demo lesson where you're going to create
the first EC2 instance as part of this course.
Now this lesson will fall under the AWS free tier so assuming you're using
a new account which you created for this course
then you won't have any charges for this lesson. All I'll need you to do is to make
sure that you're logged in
to the general AWS account and you have the Northern
Virginia region selected which is US-East-1.
Now once you're there we'll need to move to the EC2 console.
Now the quickest way to do this if you haven't been there before is to click in
this search box at the top
and type EC2, find the EC2 service
and then click to move to the EC2 console. Once you're there you'll probably
arrive
at the dashboard and the first thing that we're going to need to do
is create an SSH key pair. So to create one
on the menu on the left just scroll down and under network
and security click on key pairs. Now when you create a key pair
it's formed of two parts AWS keep one
and you can download the other part and it's important to understand
that you only get the one single opportunity to download
your part of a key pair. So when you do download it make sure you keep it safe.
To create a key pair just go ahead and click on create key pair
you'll need to give it a name and I'm going to use
A4L for mine so animals for life
which is the case study used throughout all my AWS courses.
You can choose any name you like but for consistency and to make sure that you
can follow
all the lessons in this course as I do things
you should probably also put A4L. Now you're able to select the key pair type
the differences between these two are beyond the scope of this lesson
if appropriate for the course that you're studying I will have a dedicated
lesson
which explains the differences between these two different types of key pair.
Now in terms of the private key file format so this is the part
of the key pair that you download you have to choose
.Pem or .PPK. Now if you're using macOS
or Linux then you should always put Pem.
If you're using a modern version of Windows then this comes with the version
of SSH and you can also choose Pem.
If you're using an older version of Windows
or you prefer using the PuTTY terminal application
then you should pick PPK. In this case I'm going to choose Pem
so I'm going to make sure that's selected and then go ahead and click
on create key pair. Once you've done that your browser will tell you that it needs
to save
the private component of this key pair so go ahead and save that
into your default download location and then we're going to move back to the
dashboard
to begin the process of creating our EC2 instance.
So we can click on instances to see all of the instances that we have launched
and at this point in the course
you shouldn't have any. We're going to change that we're going to launch
our first instance so go ahead and click on launch instances
and this is going to take you to the launch instance part of the console.
Now depending on when you're doing this you might see some notifications from AWS
about new
user interface changes. AWS regularly
make changes to the user interface where possible
you should always select the new version of the interface.
In my case there's been a relatively recent change to the interface
this is how it currently looks so I'm going to close down this notification.
Now the first thing that you'll need to do is to name the instance so I'm going to
go ahead
and call this my first EC2 instance
so my first EC2 instance and then I'll scroll down
and the first thing you'll be asked to choose is the version
of the operating system that this instance will run. Now this uses
Amazon Machine Images so an AMI is the thing that's used to deploy the
operating system to an EC2 instance
and there are lots of different types of AMI available.
There's Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Windows, Red Hat,
Seuss, Mac OS and lots of other different operating systems.
For this demo we're going to keep it simple and just choose Amazon Linux.
In this quick start once you've picked the main type of operating system used by
the AMI
then you'll be able to select between different versions
of that AMI. We're going to keep this simple, we're going to pick the default
and this also has the benefit of being free tier eligible.
Make sure you leave all of the defaults so 64-bit
x86 and then we can scroll down. When launching an instance
you're also asked to pick the instance type. If I click in this drop down
there are lots of different sizes and types of
instance and if applicable for the course that you're doing I'll have a
separate lesson
which details all of the differences and capabilities
of these various different types of EC2 instance.
For this demonstration we're going to keep it simple, I'm going to leave it
as the default but the important thing is to make sure
that it's set to one of the free tier eligible
instance types to make sure that you have no associated costs.
It's also important to understand that the amount of virtual CPU,
memory and other things like networking performance
will all be affected by the type and size of the instance
that you pick. Now scroll down further still and you'll be prompted to select
a key pair to use, we've just created one so click in this drop down
and go ahead and pick the key pair that you previously created
it should be named A4L. Now next are the network settings for this
EC2 instance and AWS have tried to keep this simple
with the launch instance wizard. We can edit more of these values if we
want by clicking on edit and this will allow us to
select the VPC to use so the virtual private cloud
and by default this is set to use the default
VPC within the AWS account. So this is the default VPC that's set up
in the same consistent way which allows the easy launch of EC2
instances so that it can be accessed from the public internet. So we're going
to leave this as default we're going to set it to the default VPC
If you wanted to launch an instance into a custom VPC which I'll be talking
about elsewhere in the course then you could select it from this list
once you've created it. You can also pick a specific subnet to
place this EC2 instance into and this also selects the availability
zone. You can think of availability zones at this stage
almost like a data center although in actual fact they can be made up of lots
of different data centers but a subnet is tied to one specific
availability zone so by picking the subnet you're also
picking the availability zone and again I'll be talking about this in much more
detail elsewhere in the course. In this case to keep this demonstration
simple I'm fine with going ahead and picking
no preference for the subnet which will allow AWS to pick on our behalf.
Now EC2 instances have private IP version 4 addresses by default
we need it to have a public IP version 4 address
and so this option allows you to either enable or disable
the auto assign of public IPs because we want to access it from the
public internet we need to make sure this is set to enable
and don't worry all of these settings are things that we're going to be
covering in much more detail later in the course
for now though leave this as enable for auto assign public IP
we also need to configure a security group for this EC2 instance
a security group is like a mini firewall you'll be learning all about this later
in the course but we need to create a new one
for this EC2 instance so go ahead and name it
my first instance SG and you can put the same
for the description now under security group rule
we need to make sure that this EC2 instance can be accessible from your
local machine I'll be covering the security implications
of this elsewhere in the course for now though
we are going to keep it simple and leave the default which is to allow
SSH from anywhere on the internet don't be concerned though because in
order to access this instance to log in and access the instance terminal you
need the key pair and at this point only you
have access to the SSH key pair so this is fine
we'll leave this as default so SSH from source
anywhere so 0.0.0.0.0 this should be default and you can leave it as is
scrolling down further still it's here where we can configure storage
and the default amount and type of the storage
is defined within the AMI and again I'll be covering all of the detail on this
later in the course for now we're going to leave this
as default now there are other types of storage available in AWS
I'll be covering the features and capabilities
in dedicated lessons if appropriate elsewhere in the course
but we are going to leave it as the default now if you just go ahead and
expand advanced details this is something that
we're going to be using elsewhere in the course this is where you can set
all of the advanced options for your EC2 instances
for now though we're not going to use any of this but this is
where you set any advanced configuration information for instances
for now we'll leave this as is and we'll just go ahead and launch the EC2
instance now this will take a few moments to
begin the creation process once it's started you'll see this
success dialogue and you can go ahead and click on view all instances
you might need to click on refresh once you do you'll see the instance and it
will start in a pending state this can take a few minutes to fully
complete the creation process so you'll see that it's initially in a pending
state you'll see nothing under status check
over time you'll see that this will change into a running state as mine's
just done I'll just keep hitting refresh next under
status check this will change to initializing so AWS is going to go ahead
and make sure that the instance is in a fully working state before it's
ready for use now this part of the process can take
some time what we're waiting for is a status check
to change away from initializing go ahead and pause the video
and wait for your status check to change and then we're good to continue
okay so this is the end of part one of this lesson
it was getting a little bit on the long side and so I wanted to add a break
it's an opportunity just to take a rest or grab a coffee
part two will be continuing immediately from the end of part one
so go ahead complete the video and when you're ready join me in part two
