Welcome back, this is part two of this lesson. We're going to continue immediately from the end of part one, so let's get started.
Now in my case this took about three minutes, but now the status check has changed and this means that we're good to continue.
AWS will run a few checks on an EC2 instance as the final stage of the provisioning process,
so you want to make sure that an instance has passed these checks before you continue.
You can also see that this instance has its own public IP version 4 address and public IP version 4 DNS name,
so both of these can be used to access this instance over the public internet.
And if we scroll all the way to the right, you'll be able to see the security group name, the key name, as well as the launch time of this instance.
If you click on the instance, then on the pane on the bottom you'll be able to access much more detailed information.
You've got the details tab, which gives you high-level important information about the instance.
You can click on the security tab to see security-focused information.
The networking tab to see details of all the networking configuration.
Likewise, the storage tab will give you an overview of all of the storage.
Click on status checks to get information about the pass or fail states of these status checks.
And then click on monitoring and you'll be able to get access to all of the metrics gathered by CloudWatch for this EC2 instance.
And again, these are all things that you'll be learning about elsewhere in the course.
For now, what I want to do is demonstrate how you can connect to the terminal of this EC2 instance.
So if you go ahead, we'll move back to the details tab to keep this easy.
Just right-click on the instance and then click on connect, and this will open the connect dialog.
Now, there are many different ways that you can connect to an EC2 instance.
You could use EC2 instance connect, which is a web console to access the EC2 instance.
I'll quickly demonstrate that.
So leave all of this as default and then click on connect.
And via your web browser, you'll be taken to the terminal of the EC2 instance.
So this is a really easy way to get access to an EC2 instance console without having to use an SSH application.
So as you can see, we're at the instance operating system now and we can interact with this EC2 instance.
The other option we have is session manager.
Now, this won't work in this case because there's some additional configuration that's required.
Now, that's everything I wanted to cover in this lesson.
In this lesson, I just want to give you a really basic introduction on how you can provision an EC2 instance.
What I want you to do before you finish up is to click on instances, select the instance that you've just created,
make sure it's the right one, should be called my first EC2 instance.
Right-click, move down, and then click on terminate instance.
Please do make sure it's the correct one.
It should be called my first EC2 instance.
It's the one that you've just created.
And then go ahead and click on terminate.
If you want to tidy this up completely, scroll down, click on security groups,
find the security group that's called my first instance security group and then select it.
Then click on the actions dropdown, scroll down, and click on delete security groups.
If you get a message telling you that this security group can't be deleted,
that's because it's still associated with this EC2 instance, which is still in the process of terminating.
So go back to instances, refresh and make sure it says terminated, then return to security groups,
make sure my first instance SG is still selected.
If it's not, select it, click on actions, scroll down, delete security groups,
confirm that it is the correct security group, and then click on delete.
Now you should only have this one security group in place, which is the default security group for the default VPC.
And we're going to leave this. We're not going to touch the default VPC at all.
At this point, that's everything I wanted you to do in this video.
So go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
