Welcome back and in this demo lesson I'm going to step through
how you can register a domain using Route 53.
Now this is an optional step within the course.
Worst case you should know how to perform
the domain registration process within AWS
and optionally you can use this domain within
certain demos within the course to get a more
real-world like experience. Now to get started
as always just make sure that you're logged in to the
IAM admin user of the general AWS account
which is the management account of the organization. Now make sure that you have
the Northern
Virginia region selected. While Route 53
is a global service I want you to get into the habit
of using the Northern Virginia region. Now we're going to be using the Route
53 product so click in the search box at the top of the screen
type Route 53 and then click to move to the Route 53 console.
Now Route 53 at least in the context of this demo lesson has two
major areas. First is hosted zones
and this is where you create or manage DNS
zones within the product. Now DNS zones as you'll learn elsewhere in the course you
can think of
as databases which store your DNS records.
When you create a hosted zone within Route 53
Route 53 will allocate four nameservers
to host this hosted zone and that's important you need to understand that
every time you create a new hosted zone
Route 53 will allocate four different
nameservers to host that zone. Now the second area of Route 53
is registered domains and it's in the registered domains area of the console
where you can register a domain
or transfer a domain in to Route 53.
Now we're going to register a domain but before we do that if you do see
any notifications about trying out
new versions of the console then go ahead and click
to try out that new version. Where possible I always like to teach using
the latest version of the console UI
because it's going to be what you'll be using long term.
So in my case I'm gonna go ahead and click on try out the new console depending
on when you're doing this demo
you may see this or not. In either case you want to be using
this version of the console UI. So if you are going to register a domain for this
course
then you need to go ahead and click register domains.
And the first step is to type the domain that you want
into this box. Now a case study that I use throughout the course
is animals for life so I'm going to go ahead and register a domain
related to this case study. So if I type animalsforlife.com
and press enter it will search for the domain and tell us whether it's available.
In this case animalsforlife.com is not available.
It's already been registered. In my case I'm going to use an alternative so I'm
going to try and register
animalsforlife.io. Now IO domains are one of the most expensive so if you are
registering a domain yourself
I would tend to advise you to look for one of the cheaper ones.
I'm going to register this one and it is available. So once I've verified that it is
available and it's the one I want
we're going to go ahead and click on select. We can verify the price of this
domain for one year
in this case 71 US dollars and then go ahead and click
on proceed to checkout. Now it's here where you can specify
a duration for the domain registration. You can use the default of one year
or alternatively you can go ahead and pick a longer
registration period. For this domain I'm going to choose one year
and then you can choose whether you want to auto renew the domain
after that initial period. In my case I'm going to leave this selected
you'll see a subtotal at the price and then you can click next to move on to
the next step.
Now at this point you need to specify the contact type. In most cases you'll be
putting
a person or a company but there's also association,
public body or reseller. You need to go ahead and fill in all of these details
and they do need to be valid details that's really important.
If you are worried about privacy most domains will
allow you to turn on privacy protection so any details that you enter here
cannot be seen externally. Now obviously to keep my privacy intact I'm going to go
ahead
and fill in all of these details and I'm going to hide
the specifics and once I've entered them all I'm going to go ahead
and click on next and you should do the same. Again I've hidden my details on the
bottom of the screen
Route 53 does tell you that in addition to the domain
registration cost there is a monthly cost
for the hosted zone which will be created as part of this registration.
So there is a small monthly cost for every
hosted zone which you have hosted using Route 53
and every domain that you have will need one hosted zone.
So I'm going to scroll down everything looks good you'll need to agree to the
terms and conditions
and then click on submit. Now at this point the domain
is registering and it will take some time to complete.
You may receive a registration
email which may include something that you need to do
clicking on a link or some other form of identity verification. You might not get
that
but if you do get it it's important that you do follow
all the steps contained within that email
and if you don't receive an email you should check
your spam folder because if there are any actions to perform
and you don't it could result in the domain being disabled.
Now you can see the status of the domain registration by clicking
on requests directly below registered domains.
The status will initially be listed as in progress
and we need this to change to successful so pause the video
wait for the status to change and then you're good to continue.
Welcome back in my case this took about 20 minutes to complete
but as you can see my domain is now registered.
So if we go to registered domains you'll be able to see the domain name listed together with
the expiration date
the auto renew status and the status
of the transfer lock. Now transfer lock is a security feature it means the
domain cannot be transferred away
from route 53 without you disabling
this lock. Now we're able to see additional details
on the domain if we click on the domain name. Now obviously I've hidden
my contact information if you click on the DNSSEC
keys tab then it's here where you can configure DNSSEC
on the domain we won't be doing anything with that at this stage.
One of the important points I want to draw your attention to
is the name servers so I've registered
animalsforlife.io and it's these
name servers that will be entered into the animals for life record
within the .io top level domain zone.
So these servers are the ones that the DNS system
will point at. These currently are set
to four route 53 name servers
and because we've registered the domain inside route 53
this process is automatic so a hosted zone
is created. Four name servers are allocated to host
this hosted zone and then those four name servers
are entered into our domain records in
our top level domain zone. So this process
end-to-end is all automatic. So the four name servers for the animalsforlife.io
hosted zone these are entered
in to the animalsforlife.io record within the .io
top level domain zone. It's all automatic.
So if we move to the hosted zone area of the console
and then go inside animalsforlife.io
and then expand the hosted zone details at the top. These
are the four name servers which are hosting this hosted zone
and if you're paying attention you'll note these are the same four servers that
are contained
within the registered domains area of the console
and these are the same four servers which have been entered into the .io
top level domain zone. Now
if you ever delete and then recreate
a hosted zone it's going to be allocated with four
brand new name servers. These name servers will be different
than the name servers for the zone which you deleted.
So if you delete and recreate a hosted zone you'll be given
four brand new name servers. And in order to stop any DNS problems you'll need to
take these brand new name servers
and update the items within the registered domains
area of the console. But again because you've registered the domain
within Route 53 this process has been handled for you
end-to-end. You won't need to worry about any of this unless you delete
and recreate the hosted zone. Now that's everything you need to do
at this point. If you followed this process throughout this demo lesson
you now have an operational domain
within the global DNS infrastructure that's manageable
within Route 53. Now as I mentioned earlier
this is an optional step for the course. If you do have a domain registered
then you will have the opportunity to use it within various demo lessons
within the course. If you don't, don't worry, none of this
is mandatory. You can do the rest of the course without having
a domain. At this point though that is everything I wanted you to do
in this demo lesson. Go ahead and complete the video
and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
