Welcome to this lesson where I'm going to very briefly
talk about a special type of IAM role and that's service
linked roles. Now luckily there isn't a great deal of difference between service
linked roles
and IAM roles, they're just used in a very
specific set of situations. So let's jump in
and get started. So simply put, a service linked
role is an IAM role linked to a specific
AWS service. They provide a set
of permissions which is predefined by
a service. So they provide permissions that a single
AWS service needs to interact with
other AWS services on your behalf. Now service linked roles
might be created by the service itself
or the service might allow you to create the role
during the setup process of that service
or service linked roles might also get created within
IAM. Now the key difference between
service linked roles and normal roles is that you can't
delete a service linked role until it's no longer required
and that means that it's no longer used within
that AWS service. So that's the one key difference.
Now in terms of permissions that you need to create a service linked role
this is an example of a policy which allows you
to create a service linked role. So you'll notice
a few key elements of this. So in terms of the top
statement, it's an allow statement, the action is
IAM create a service linked role and then for resource
it has this service hyphen name dot amazon
AWS dot com. Now the important thing here is
do not try to guess this because different services
express this in different ways, the formatting is different and you're not
going to be able to guess this by knowing the name of the service
I've included a link which contains an overview of these
attached to this lesson but the key thing is the format can differ
and it is case sensitive. So when you're creating this type of policy to give
somebody the ability to create
service linked roles you have to be careful about making sure you do not
guess
this element of a statement. Now another important consideration with service
linked roles
is that of role separation. So when I talk about role separation
I'm not using it in a technical sense, I'm talking about it in a job
role sense. So role separation is where you might give
one group of people the ability to create roles
and another group of people the ability to use them.
So in this case we might want to give Bob, who's one of our users
the ability to use a service linked role
with an AWS service. So that's using this
architecture. So being able to take a service linked role
and assign it to a service. And if you wanted to give Bob the ability
to use a pre-existing role with a service but not
create that role or edit that role then you need to provide Bob
with the pass role permissions. So this is an example
this allows Bob to pass an existing
role into an AWS service
It's an example of role separation. It means that Bob
could configure a service with a role which has
already been created by a member of the security team
he'd just need this list role and pass role permissions
on that specific role. Now this is the same type of architecture
as when you use a pre-created role for example with a CloudFormation stack
you might not have done this lesson yet but by default
when you're creating a CloudFormation stack CloudFormation
uses the permissions of your identity to interact with AWS
which means not only do you need permissions to create a stack
but you also need permissions to create the resources that that stack creates
so that's the default method. But what you can do
is give for example a user Bob the ability to pass
a role into CloudFormation. That role could have permissions which exceed
those which Bob directly has. So a role
that Bob uses could have the ability to create AWS resources where Bob
does not. So Bob might have access to create a stack
and to pass in a role but this role is what provides CloudFormation with the
permissions
it needs to interact with AWS. So pass role
is a method inside AWS which gives you the ability to
implement role separation and it's something which you can also use with
service linked roles
this is something I just wanted to reiterate so that you understand that
passing a role is a very important AWS security architecture
now that is everything I wanted to cover in this very brief lesson
it's really just an extension of what you've already learned
about IAM roles and it's something that you're going to be using
in demo lessons elsewhere in the course. For now I just want you to be aware
of how service linked roles are different than normal roles
and how the pass role architecture works. But with that being said
that's everything I wanted to cover in this video so go ahead
and complete the video and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me
in the next.
