Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to continue my EBS series and talk about Provisioned IOPS SSD.
So that means IO1 and IO2. Let's jump in and get started straight away, because we do have a lot to cover.
Strictly speaking, there are now three types of Provisioned IOPS SSD.
Two which are in general release, IO1 and its successor IO2, and one which is in preview, which is IO2 Block Express.
Now they all offer slightly different performance characteristics and different prices,
but the common factors is that IOPS are configurable independent of the size of the volume,
and they're designed for super high performance situations where low latency and consistency of that low latency are both important characteristics.
With IO1 and IO2 you can achieve a maximum of 64,000 IOPS per volume,
and that's four times the maximum for GP2 and GP3.
And with IO1 and IO2 you can achieve 1,000 MB per second of throughput.
This is the same as GP3 and significantly more than GP2.
Now IO2 Block Express takes this to another level.
With Block Express you can achieve 256,000 IOPS per volume and 4,000 MB per second of throughput per volume.
In terms of the volume sizes that you can use with Provisioned IOPS SSDs, with IO1 and IO2 it ranges from 4 GB to 16 TB,
and with IO2 Block Express you can use larger up to 64 TB volumes.
Now I mentioned that with these volumes you can allocate IOPS performance values independently of the size of the volume.
Now this is useful for when you need extreme performance for smaller volumes or when you just need extreme performance in general,
but there is a maximum of the size to performance ratio.
For IO1 it's 50 IOPS per GB of size, so this is more than the 3 IOPS per GB for GP2.
For IO2 this increases to 500 IOPS per GB of volume size, and for Block Express this is 1,000 IOPS per GB of volume size.
Now these are all maximums and with these types of volumes you pay for both the size and the Provisioned IOPS that you need.
Now because with these volume types you're dealing with extreme levels of performance,
there is also another restriction that you need to be aware of, and that's the per-instance performance.
There is a maximum performance which can be achieved between the EBS service and a single EC2 instance.
Now this is influenced by a few things.
The type of volumes, so different volumes have a different maximum per-instance performance level,
the type of the instance, and then finally the size of the instance.
You'll find that only the most modern and largest instances support the highest levels of performance,
and these per-instance maximums will also be more than one volume can provide on its own,
and so you're going to need multiple volumes to saturate this per-instance performance level.
With IO1 volumes you can achieve a maximum of 260,000 IOPS per instance and a throughput of 7,500 MB per second.
It means you'll need just over four volumes of performance operating at maximum to achieve this per-instance limit.
Oddly enough, IO2 is slightly less at 160,000 IOPS for an entire instance and 4,750 MB per second,
and that's because AWS have split these new generation of volume types.
They've added Block Express per second for an instance maximum.
So it's important that you understand that these are per-instance maximums,
so you need multiple volumes all operating together,
and think of this as a performance cap for an individual EC2 instance.
Now these are the maximums for the volume types,
but you also need to take into consideration any maximums for the type and size of the instance.
So all of these things need to align in order to achieve maximum performance.
Now keep these figures locked in your mind.
It's not so much about the exact numbers,
but having a good idea about the levels of performance that you can achieve with GP2 or GP3,
and then IO1, IO2 and IO2 Block Express will really help you in real-world situations and in the exam.
The instance store volumes, which we're going to be covering elsewhere in this section,
can achieve even higher performance levels,
but this comes with a serious limitation in that it's not persistent, but more on that soon.
Now as a comparison, the per-instance maximums for GP2 and GP3 is 260,000 IOPS and 7,000 MB per second per instance.
Again, don't focus too much on the exact numbers,
but you need to have a feel for the ranges that these different types of storage volumes occupy
versus each other and versus instance store.
Now you'll be using provisioned IOPS SSD for anything which needs really low latency or sub-millisecond latency,
consistent latency and higher levels of performance.
One common use case is when you have smaller volumes but need super high performance,
and that's only achievable with IO1, IO2 and IO2 Block Express.
Now that's everything that I wanted to cover in this lesson.
Again, if you're doing the SysOps or developer streams, there's going to be a demo lesson
where you'll experience the storage performance levels.
For the architecture stream, this theory is enough.
At this point though, thanks for watching. That's everything I wanted to cover.
Go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
