Welcome back and in this lesson I want to talk about the Hard Disk Drive or HDD based volume types provided by EBS.
HDD based means they have moving bits, platters which spin little robot arms known as heads which move across those spinning platters.
Moving parts means slower, which is why you'd only want to use these volume types in very specific situations.
Now let's jump straight in and look at the types of situations where you would want to use HDD based storage.
Now there are two types of HDD based storage within EBS. Well that's not true, there are actually three.
But one of them is legacy, so I'll be covering the two ones which are in general usage.
And those are ST1 which is throughput optimized HDD and SC1 which is cold HDD.
So think about ST1 as the fast hard drive, not very agile but pretty fast, and think about SC1 as cold.
ST1 is cheap, it's less expensive than the SSD volumes which makes it ideal for any larger volumes of data.
SC1 is even cheaper but it comes with some significant trade-offs.
Now ST1 is designed for data which is sequentially accessed.
Because it's HDD based it's not great at random access.
It's more designed for data which needs to be written or read in a fairly sequential way.
Now let's look at applications where throughput and economy is more important than IOPS or extreme levels of performance.
ST1 volumes range from 125 GB to 16 TB in size and you have a maximum of 500 IOPS.
But, and this is important, IO on HDD based volumes is measured as 1 MB blocks.
So 500 IOPS means 500 MB per second.
Now their maximums, HDD based storage works in a similar way to how GP2 volumes work with a credit bucket.
Only with HDD based volumes it's done around MB per second rather than IOPS.
So with ST1 you have a baseline performance of 40 MB per second for every 1 TB of volume size.
And you can burst to a maximum of 250 MB per second for every TB of volume size.
Obviously up to the maximum of 500 IOPS and 500 MB per second.
ST1 is designed for when cost is a concern but you need frequent access storage for throughput intensive sequential workloads.
So things like big data, data warehouses and log processing.
Now SC1 on the other hand is designed for infrequent workloads.
It's geared towards maximum economy when you just want to store lots of data and don't care about performance.
So it offers a maximum of 250 IOPS.
Again, this is with a 1 MB IO size.
So this means a maximum of 250 MB per second of throughput.
And just like with ST1 this is based on the same credit pool architecture.
So it has a baseline of 12 MB per TB of volume size and a burst of 80 MB per second per TB of volume size.
So you can see that this offers significantly less performance than ST1 but it's also significantly cheaper.
And just like with ST1 volumes can range from 125 GB to 16 TB in size.
This storage type is the lowest cost EBS storage available.
It's designed for less frequently accessed workloads.
So if you have colder data, archives or anything which requires less than a few loads or scans per day then this is the type of storage volume to pick.
And that's it for HDD based storage.
Both of these are lower cost and lower performance versus SSD designed for when you need economy of data storage.
Picking between them is simple. If you can tolerate the trade-offs of SC1 then use that.
It's super cheap and for anything which isn't day-to-day accessed it's perfect.
Otherwise choose ST1.
And if you have a requirement for anything IOPS based then avoid both of these and look at SSD based storage.
With that being said though that's everything that I wanted to cover in this lesson.
Thanks for watching, go ahead and complete the video and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
