Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to quickly cover the theory of the Elastic Container Registry, or ECR.
Now I want to keep the theory part brief, because you're going to get the chance to experience this in practice elsewhere in the course.
And this is one of those topics which is much easier to show you via a demo, versus covering the theory.
So I'm going to keep this as brief as possible. So let's jump in and get started.
Well let's first look at what the Elastic Container Registry is.
Well it's a managed container image registry service. It's like Docker Hub, but for AWS.
So this is a service which AWS provide, which hosts and manages container images.
And when I talk about container images, I mean images which can be used within Docker or other container applications.
So think things like ECS or EKS.
Now within the ECR product we have public and private registries.
And each AWS account is provided with one of each. So this is the top level structure.
Inside each registry you can have many repositories. So you can think of these like repos within a source control system.
So think of Git or GitHub. You can have many repositories.
Now inside each repository you can have many container images.
And container images can have several tags. And these tags need to be unique within your repository.
Now in terms of the security architecture, the differences between public and private registries are pretty simple.
First, a public registry means that anyone can have read-only access to anything within that registry.
But read-write requires permissions.
The other side is that a private registry means that permissions are required for any read or any read-write operations.
So this means with a public registry anyone can pull, but to push you need permissions.
And for a private registry permissions are required for any operations.
So that's the high level architecture. Let's move on and talk about some of the benefits of the elastic container registry.
Well first and foremost it's integrated with IAM. And this is logically for permissions.
So this means that all permissions controlling access to anything within the product are controlled using IAM.
Now ECR offers security scanning on images. And this comes in two different flavors, basic and enhanced.
And enhanced is a relatively new type of scanning. And this uses the inspector product.
Now this can scan looking for issues with both the operating system and any software packages within your containers.
And this works on a layer by layer basis. So enhanced scanning is a really good piece of additional functionality that the product provides.
Now logically like many other AWS products, ECR offers near real-time metrics and these are delivered into CloudWatch.
Now these metrics are for things like authentication or push or pull operations against any of the container images.
ECR also logs all API actions into CloudTrail and then also it generates events which are delivered into EventBridge.
And this can form part of an event driven workflow which involves container images.
Now lastly ECR offers replication of container images and this is both cross region and cross account.
So these are all important features provided by ECR.
Now as I mentioned at the start of this lesson, all I wanted to do is to cover the high level theory of this product.
It's far easier to gain an understanding of the product by actually using it.
So elsewhere in the course you're going to get the chance to use ECR in some container based workflows.
So you'll get the chance to push some container images into the product and pull them when you're deploying your container based applications.
Now that's everything I wanted to cover in this video. So go ahead and complete the video and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
