Welcome back. In this lesson, I want to cover the Systems Manager Parameter Store,
a service from AWS which makes it easy to store various bits of system configuration,
so strings, documents, and secrets, and store those in a resilient, secure, and scalable way.
So let's step through the product's architecture, including how to best make use of it.
If you remember, earlier in this section of the course,
I mentioned that passing secrets into an EC2 instance using user data was bad practice
because anyone with access to the instance could access all of that data.
Well, Parameter Store is a way that this can be improved.
Parameter Store lets you create parameters, and these have a parameter name and a parameter value,
and the value is the part that stores the actual configuration.
Many AWS services integrate with the Parameter Store natively.
CloudFormation offers integrations that you've already used,
which I'll explain in a second and in the upcoming demo lessons,
and you can also use the CLI tooling on an EC2 instance to get access to the service.
So when I'm talking about configuration and secrets,
Parameter Store offers the ability to store three different types of parameters.
We've got strings, string lists, and secure strings.
And using these three different types of parameters,
you can store things inside the product, such as license codes, database connection strings,
so host names, ports.
You can even store full configs and passwords.
Now, Parameter Store also allows you to store parameters using a hierarchical structure.
Parameter Store also stores different versions of parameters.
So just like we've got object versioning in S3 inside Parameter Store,
we can also have different versions of parameters.
Parameter Store can also store plays, but we can also use ciphertext,
and this integrates with KMS to allow you to encrypt parameters.
So this is useful if you're storing passwords
or other sensitive information that you want to keep secret.
So when you encrypt using ciphertext, you use KMS,
and that means you need permissions on KMS as well.
So there's that extra layer of security.
The Parameter Store's also got the concept of public parameters.
So these are parameters publicly available and created by AWS.
You've used these earlier in the course.
An example is when you've used CloudFormation to create EC2 instances,
you haven't had to specify a particular AMI to use
because you've consulted a public parameter made available by AWS,
which is the latest AMI ID for a particular operating system in that particular region,
and I'll be demonstrating exactly how that works now in the upcoming demo lessons.
Now, the architecture of the Parameter Store is simple enough to understand.
It's a public service, so anything using it needs to either be an AWS service
or have access to the AWS public space endpoints.
Different types of things can use the Parameter Store,
so this might be things like applications,
EC2 instances, all the things running on those instances,
and even Lambda functions,
and they can all request access to parameters inside the Parameter Store.
As Parameter Store is an AWS service,
it's tightly integrated with IAM for permissions,
so any accesses will need to be authenticated and authorized,
and that might use long-term credentials,
so access keys or those credentials might be passed in via an IAM role.
And if parameters are encrypted, then KMS will be involved
and the appropriate permissions to the CMK inside KMS will also be required.
Now, Parameter Store allows you to create simple or complex sets of parameters.
For example, you might have something simple like MyDB Password,
which stores your database password in an encrypted form,
but you can also create hierarchical structures,
so something like forward slash wordpress forward slash,
and inside there we might have something called dbUser,
which could be accessed either by using its full name
or requesting the WordPress part of the tree.
We could also have dbPassword,
which again, because it's under the WordPress branch of the tree,
could be accessed along with dbUser
by pulling the whole WordPress tree
or accessed individually by using its full name,
so forward slash wordpress forward slash dbPassword.
Now, we might also have applications which have their own part of the tree,
for example, my-cat-app,
or you might have functional division in your organization,
so giving your dev team a branch of the tree to store their passwords.
Now, permissions are flexible
and they can be set either on individual parameters or whole trees,
everything supports versioning,
and any changes that occur to any parameters can also spawn events,
and these events can start off processes in other AWS services,
and I'll introduce this later,
I just want to mention it now so you understand
that parameter store parameter changes
can initiate events that occur in other AWS products.
Now, parameter store isn't a hugely complex product to understand,
and so at this point I've covered all of the theory that you'll need
for the associate level exam.
What I want to do now is to finish off this theory lesson,
and immediately following this is a demo
where I want to show you how you can interact with the parameter store
via the console UI and the AWS command line tools.
Now, it will be a relatively brief demo,
and so you're welcome to just watch me perform the steps,
or of course, as always, you can follow along with your own environment,
and I'll be providing all the resources that you need to do that
inside that demo lessons folder in the course GitHub repository.
So at this point, go ahead, finish this video,
and when you're ready, you can join me in the next demo lesson.
