Welcome back, and in this video I want to talk about GeoProximity routing, which is
another routing policy available within Route 53, so let's just jump in and get started.
GeoProximity aims to provide records which are as close to your customers as possible.
If you recall, latency-based routing provides the record which has the lowest estimated
latency between your customer and the region that the record is in. GeoProximity aims to
calculate the distance between a customer and a record and answer with the lowest distance.
Now it might seem similar to latency, but this routing policy works on distance and
also provides a few key benefits which I'll talk about in this video.
When using GeoProximity you define rules, so you define the region that a resource is
created in, if it's an AWS resource, or provide the latitude and longitude coordinates if
it's an external resource. You also define a bias, but more on that in a second.
Let's say that you have three resources, one in America, one in the UK and one in Australia.
But we can define rules which means that requests are routed to those resources. If these were
resources in AWS, we could define the region that the resources were located in, so maybe
US East 1 or AP South East 2. If the resources were external, so non-AWS resources, we could
define their location based on coordinates, but in either case Route 53 knows the location
of these resources. It also knows the location of the customers making the requests and so
it will direct those requests at the closest resource.
Now we're always going to have some situations where customers in countries without any resources
are using our systems, in this case Saudi Arabia, which is over 10,000 kilometers away
from Australia and about 6.7 thousand kilometers away from the UK. Under normal circumstances,
this would mean that the UK resource would be returned for any users in Saudi Arabia.
What GeoProximity allows us to do though is to define a bias, so rather than just using
the actual physical distance, we can adjust how Route 53 handles the calculation. We can
define a plus or minus bias. So for example, with the UK we might define a plus bias, meaning
the effective area of service for the UK resource is increased larger than it otherwise would
be. And we could do the same for the Australian resource, but maybe providing a much larger
plus bias. Now routing is distance based but it includes this bias, so in this case we
can influence Route 53 so that customers from Saudi Arabia are routed to the Australian
resource rather than the UK one. GeoProximity routing lets Route 53 route traffic to your
resources based on the geographic location of your users and your resources, but you
can optionally choose to route more traffic or less traffic to a given resource by specifying
a value. The value is called a bias. A bias expands or shrinks the size of a geographic
region that is used for traffic to be routed to. So even in the example of the UK where
it's just a single relatively small country, by adding a plus bias we can effectively make
the size larger so that more surrounding countries route towards that resource. In
the case of Australia, by adding an even larger bias we can make it so that countries even
in the Middle East route towards Australia rather than the closer resource in the UK.
So GeoProximity routing is a really flexible routing type that not only allows you to control
decisions based on the locations of your users and resources, it also allows you to place
a bias on these rules to influence those routing decisions. So this is a really important one
to understand and it will come in really handy for a certain set of use cases. Now thanks
for watching, that's everything that I wanted to cover in this video. Go ahead and complete
the video and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next.
