Welcome back, and in this video I want to talk about latency-based routing, which is yet another routing policy available within Route 53.
So let's jump in and get started.
Latency-based routing should be used when you're trying to optimise for performance and user experience,
when you want Route 53 to return records which can provide better performance.
So how does it work?
Well, it starts with a hosted zone within Route 53 and some records with the same name.
So in this case, www, three of those records, they're A records, and so they point at IP addresses.
In addition, for each of the records you can specify a record region.
So US East 1, US West 1, and AP South East 2 in this example.
Latency-based routing supports one record with the same name for each AWS region.
The idea is that you're specifying the region where the infrastructure for that record is located.
Now in the background, AWS maintains a database of latencies between different regions of the world.
So when a user makes a resolution request, it will know that that user is in Australia in this example.
It does this by using an IP lookup service, and because it has a database of latencies,
it will know that a user in Australia will have a certain latency to US East 1,
a certain latency to US West 1, and hopefully the lowest latency to a record which is tagged to be in the Asia-Pacific region,
so AP South East 2.
So that record is selected, and it's returned to the user and used to connect to resources.
Latency-based routing can also be combined with health checks.
If a record is unhealthy, then the next lowest latency is returned to the client making the resolution request.
This type of routing policy is designed to improve performance for global applications
by directing traffic towards infrastructure with the best, so lowest, latency for users accessing that application.
It's worth noting though that the database which AWS maintain isn't real-time.
It's updated in the background and doesn't really account for any local networking issues,
but it's better than nothing and can significantly help with performance of your applications.
Now that's all of the theory that I wanted to cover about latency-based routing,
so go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I look forward to you joining me in the next.
