Welcome back and in this first technical lesson of this section of the course
I wanted to provide a quick fundamentals lesson
on databases. If you already have database experience then you can play me
on super fast speed and think of this lesson
as a good confirmation of the skills that you already have.
If you don't have database experience though that's okay
this lesson will introduce just enough knowledge to get you through the course
and I'll include additional reading material to get you up to speed with
databases
in general. Now we do have a fair amount to get through
so let's jump in and get started. Databases
are systems which store and manage data but there are a number of different
types of database systems and crucial differences between how data
is physically stored on disk and how it's managed
on disk and in memory as well as how the systems
retrieve data and present it to the user.
Database systems are very broadly split
into relational and non-relational. Relational systems are often referred to
as SQL or SQL. Now this is actually wrong because
SQL is a language which is used to store
update and retrieve data. It's known as the structured
query language and it's a feature of most relational database platforms.
Strictly speaking it's different than the term
relational database management system but most people use the two
interchangeably. So if you see or hear the term SQL
or RDBMS which is relational database management system
they're all referring to relational database platforms. Most people use them
interchangeably. Now one of the key identifiable characteristics of
relational database systems
is that they have a structure to their data so that's
inside and between database tables and I'll cover that
in a moment. The structure of a database table
is known as a schema and with relational database systems
it's fixed or rigid. That means it's defined
in advance before you put any data into the system.
A schema defines the names of things,
valid values of things and the types of data
which are stored and where. More importantly
with relational database systems there's also a fixed relationship
between tables so that's fixed and
also defined in advance before any data
is entered into the system. Now NoSQL
on the other hand, well let's start by making something clear. NoSQL
isn't one single thing. NoSQL
as the name suggests is everything which doesn't fit
into the SQL mold, everything which isn't relational.
But that represents a large set of alternative
database models which I'll cover in this lesson. One common major difference
which applies to most
NoSQL database models is that generally there is a much more relaxed concept
of a schema. Generally they all have weak schemas
or no schemas and relationships between
tables are also handled very differently.
Both of these impact the situations that a particular model
is right for and that's something that you need to understand
at a high level for the exam and also when you're picking a database model
for use in the real world. Before I talk about the different database models
I wanted to visually give you an idea of how relational database management
systems known as
RDBMS's or SQL systems
conceptualize the data that you store within them. Consider
an example of a simple pet database.
You have three humans and for those three humans you want to record
the pets that those humans are owned by. The key component
of any SQL-based database system is a table.
Now every table has columns and these are known
as attributes. The column has a name, its attribute name
and then within each row of that table
each column has to have a value and this is known
as the attribute value. So in this table for example the columns are
F name, first name, L name, last name and age
and then for each of the rows 1, 2 and 3
the row has an attribute value
for each of the columns. So each of the attributes which are the columns
have an attribute value in each row. Now generally the way that data is modeled
in a relational database management system or a SQL
database system is that data which relates together
is stored within a table. So in this case all of the data
on the humans is stored within one table.
Every row in the table has to be uniquely
identifiable and so we define something that's known as a primary
key. This is unique in the table and every row
of that table has to have a unique value
for this attribute. So note in this table how every row
has a unique value 1, 2 and 3
for this primary key. Now with this database model we've also got
a similar table for the animals. So we've got whiskers
and woofy and they also have a primary key that's been defined which is the
animal or AID and this primary key on this table
also has to have a unique value in every
row on the table. So in this case whiskers
is animal ID 1 and woofy is animal
ID 2. Each table in a relational database management system
can have different attributes but for a particular table
every row in that table needs to have a value
stored for every attribute in that table. So see how
the animals table has name and types whereas the human table has first name,
last name
and age but note how in both tables for every
row every attribute has to have a value.
Because SQL systems are relational we generally define
relationships between the tables. Now this is a join table
it makes it easy to have many to many relationships
so a human could have many animals and each
animal can have many human minions. A join table
has what's known as a composite key which is a key formed
of two parts and for composite keys together
they have to be unique. So notice how the second and third rows
have the same animal ID. That's fine because the human ID
is different as long as the composite key in its entirety
is unique that's also fine. Now the keys
in different tables are how the relationships between the tables
are defined. So in this example the human table has a relationship
with the join table. It allows each human
to have multiple animals and each animal
to have multiple humans. In this example
the animal ID of 2 which is Woofy
is linked to human ID 2 and 3
which is Julie and James. They're both Woofy's minions because that doggo
needs double the amount of tasty treats.
Now all these keys and the relationships are defined
in advance. This is done using the schema
it's fixed and it's very difficult to change
after the first piece of data goes in. The fact that this schema
is so fixed and has to be declared in advance makes it difficult
for a sequel or a relational system to store any data
which has rapidly changing relationships and a good example of this
is a social network such as Facebook where relationships change
all the time. So this is a simple example of a relational database system
it generally has multiple tables, a table stores
data which is related so humans and animals
tables have fixed schemas, they have attributes, they have rows
each row has a unique primary key value and has to contain
some value for all of the attributes in the table and in those tables
they have relationships between each other which are also fixed
and defined in advance. So this is SQL, this is relational
database modeling. Okay so this is the end
of part one of this lesson. It was getting a little bit on the long side
and so I wanted to add a break. It's an opportunity just to take a rest
or grab a coffee. Part two will be continuing
immediately from the end part one. So go ahead
complete the video and when you're ready join me in part two.
