Welcome back and in this video I want to talk about a specific feature of RDS
called RDS custom. Now this is a really niche topic I've yet to see it used in
the real world and for the exams you really only need to have the most
surface level understanding so I'm going to keep this really brief. So RDS custom
fills the gap between the main RDS product and then EC2 running a database
engine. RDS is a fully managed database server as a service product essentially
it gives you access to databases running on a database server which is
fully managed by AWS and so any OS or engine access is limited using the main
RDS product. Now databases running on EC2 they're self-managed but this has
significant overhead because done in this way you're responsible for
everything from the operating system upwards. So RDS custom bridges this gap
it gives you the ability to occupy a middle ground where you can utilize RDS
but still get access to some of the customizations that you have access to
when running your own DB engine on EC2. Now currently RDS custom works for MS
SQL and Oracle and when you're using RDS custom you can actually connect to
using SSH, RDP and Session Manager and actually get access to the operating
system and database engine. Now RDS custom unlike RDS is actually running
within your AWS account. If you're utilizing normal RDS then if you look in
your account you won't see any EC2 instances or EBS volumes or any backups
within S3. That's because they're all occurring within an AWS managed
environment. With RDS the networking works by injecting elastic network
interfaces into your VPC. That's how you get access to the RDS instance from a
networking perspective. But with RDS custom everything is running within your
AWS account so you will see an EC2 instance, you will see EBS volumes and
you will see backups inside your AWS account. Now if you do need to perform
any type of customization of RDS custom then you need to look at the database
automation settings. To ensure that you have no disruptions caused by the RDS
automation while you're performing customizations you need to pause
database automation, perform your customizations and then resume the
automation. So re-enable full automation and this makes sure that the database
is ready for production usage. Now again I'm skipping through a lot of these
facts and talking only at a high level because realistically you're probably
never going to encounter this in production and if you do have any
exposure to it on the exam just knowing that it exists will be enough. Now from a
service model perspective this is how using RDS custom changes things. So on
this screen anything that you see in blue is customer managed, anything that
you see in orange is AWS managed and then anything that has a gradient is a
shared responsibility. So if you're using a database engine running on premises
then you're responsible for everything as the customer. So application
optimization, scaling, high availability, backups, any DB patches, operating system
install and management of the hardware end-to-end that's your
responsibility. Now if you migrate to using RDS this is how it looks where AWS
have responsibility for everything but application optimization. Now if for
whatever reason you can't use RDS then historically your only other option was
to use a database engine running on EC2 and this was the model in that
configuration so AWS handled the hardware but from an operating system
installation perspective, operating system patches, database patches, backups,
HA, scaling and application optimization they were still the responsibility of
the customer so you only gained a tiny amount of benefit versus using an
on-premises system. With RDS custom we have this extra option where the
hardware is AWS's responsibility, the application optimization is the
customer responsibility but everything else is shared between the customer and
AWS so this gives you some of the benefits of both. It gives you the
ability to use the RDS product and benefit from the automation while at the
same time allowing you an increased level of customization and the ability
the instance using SSH, Session Manager or RDP. Now once again for the exam this
is everything that you'll need to understand it only currently works for
Oracle and MS SQL and for the real world you probably won't encounter this
outside a very niche scenarios. With that being said though that is everything I
wanted to cover in this video so go ahead and complete the video and when
you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next.
