Welcome back and in this lesson I want to quickly cover the Aurora Global Database product.
Now the name probably gives away the function, but to avoid any confusion, global databases
allow you to create global level replication using Aurora from a master region to up to five
secondary AWS regions. Now this is one of the things which you just need an awareness of for
the exam. I don't expect it to feature heavily, but I want you to be aware of exactly what
functionality Aurora Global Database provides. I want to keep this lesson as brief as possible.
Let's quickly jump in and look at the architecture first. So this is a common architecture that you
might find when using Aurora Global Databases. We've got an environment here which operates
from two or more regions. We've got a primary region, US East 1, on this example on the left.
This primary region offers similar functionality to a normal Aurora cluster. It has one read and
write instance and up to 15 read-only replicas in that cluster. Global Databases introduce the
concept of secondary regions and the example that's on screen is AP Southeast 2, which is
the Sydney region on the right of your screen. And these can have up to 16 replicas. The entire
secondary cluster is read-only. So in this example, all 16 replicas would be read-only replicas. The
entire secondary cluster during normal operations is read-only. Now the replication from the primary
region to secondary regions, that occurs at the storage layer and replication is typically within
one second from the primary to all of the secondaries. Applications can use the primary
instance in the primary region for write operations and then the replicas in the primary
or the replicas in the secondary regions for read operations. So that's the architecture but what's
perhaps more important for the exam is when you would use Global Databases. So let's have a look
at that next. Aurora Global Databases are great for cross-region disaster recovery and business
continuity. So you can basically create a global database, set up multiple secondary regions and
then if you do have a disaster which affects an entire AWS region, then you can make these
secondary clusters act as primary clusters so they can do read-write operations. So it offers a great
solution for cross-region disaster recovery and business continuity and because of the one second
replication time between the primary region and secondary regions, it makes sure that both the RPO
and RTO values are going to be really low if you do perform a cross-region failover. They're also
great for global read scaling so if you want to offer low latency to any international areas where
you have customers, remember low latency generally equates to really good performance so if you want
to offer low latency performance improvements to international customers then you can create
lots of secondary regions replicated from a primary region and then the application can sit
in those secondary regions and just perform read operations against these secondary clusters and
you provide your customers with great performance. Again it's important to understand that Aurora
Global Databases, the replication occurs at the storage layer and it's generally around one second
or even less between regions, so from the primary region to all secondary regions. It's also
important to understand that this is one-way replication from the primary to the secondary
regions, it is not bi-directional replication and replication has no impact on database performance
because it occurs at the storage layer so no additional CPU usage is required to perform the
replication tasks, it happens at the storage layer. Secondary regions can have 16 replicas,
if you think about Aurora normally it can have one read and write primary instance and then up
to 15 read replicas for a total of 16 so it makes sense that secondary regions because they don't
have this read write primary instance all of the replicas inside a secondary can be read replicas
so it can have a total of 16 replicas per secondary region and all of these can be promoted
to read write if you do have any disaster situations and currently there is a maximum of five
secondary regions though just like most things in AWS this is likely to change. Now again for
the exam I don't expect this particular product to feature extensively but I do want you to have
an awareness so that when it does begin to be mentioned in the exam or if you need to use it
in production you have a starting point by understanding the architecture. With that being
said though that is everything that I wanted to cover in this theory lesson so go ahead complete
the video and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
