Welcome back, and in this video I want to talk at a high level about the AWS Backup product.
Now this is something that you need to have an awareness of for most of the AWS exams
and to get started in the real world.
But it's not something that you need to understand in depth for all of the AWS certifications.
So let's jump in and cover the important points of the product.
So AWS Backup is a fully managed data protection service.
At this level of study you can think about it as a backup and restore product,
but it also includes much more in the way of auditing and management oversight.
The product allows you to consolidate the management and storage of your backups in one place,
across multiple accounts and multiple regions if you configure it that way.
So that's important to understand the product is capable of being configured to operate across multiple accounts.
So this utilizes services like Control Tower and organizations to allow this,
and it's also capable of copying data between regions to provide extra data protection.
But the main day-to-day benefit that the product provides is this consolidation of management and storage within one place.
So instead of having to configure backups of RDS in one place, DynamoDB in another,
and organize some kind of script to take regular EBS snapshots,
AWS Backup can do all this on your behalf.
Now AWS Backup is capable of interacting with a wide range of AWS products.
So many AWS services are fully supported, various compute services,
so EC2 and VMware running within AWS, block storage such as EBS,
file storage products such as EFS and the various different types of FSX,
and then most of the AWS database products are supported such as Aurora, RDS, Neptune, DynamoDB and DocumentDB.
And then even object storage is supported using S3.
Now all of these products can be centrally managed by AWS Backup,
which means both the storage and the configuration of how the backup and retention operates.
Now let's step through some of the key concepts and components of the AWS Backup product.
First we have one of the central components, and that's backup plans.
It's on these where you can configure the frequency of backups,
so how often backups are going to occur every hour, every 12 hours, daily, weekly or monthly.
You can also use a cronexpression that creates snapshots as frequently as hourly.
Now if you have any business backup experience, you might recognize this.
If you select weekly, you can specify which days of the week you want backups to be taken,
and if you specify monthly, you can choose a specific day of the month.
Now you can also enable continuous backups for certain supported products,
and this allows you to use a point-in-time restore feature.
So if you've enabled continuous backups, then you can restore a supported service to a particular point in time within a window.
Now you can configure the backup window as well within backup plans,
so this controls the time that backups begin and the duration of that backup window.
You can configure life cycles, which define when a backup is transitioned to cold storage and when it expires.
When you transition a backup into cold storage, it needs to be stored there for a minimum of 90 days.
Backup plans also set the vault to use, and more on this in a second,
and they allow you to configure region copy, so you can copy backups from one region to another.
Next we have backup resources, and these are logically what is being backed up.
So whether you want to backup an S3 bucket or an RDS database, that's what a resource is.
What resources you want to backup.
Next we have vaults, and you can think of vaults as the destination for backups.
It's here where all the backup data is stored, and you need to configure at least one of these.
Now vaults by default are read and write, meaning that backups can be deleted.
But you can also enable AWS Backup Vault Lock, and this is not to be confused by Glacier or Object Locking.
AWS Backup Vault Lock enables a write once read many, known as worm mode, for the vault.
Once enabled, you get a 72 hour cool off period, but once fully active,
nobody, including AWS, can delete anything from the vault.
And this is designed for compliance style situations.
Now any data retention periods that you set still apply, so backups can age out.
But setting this means that it's not possible to bypass or delete anything early.
And the product is also capable of performing on-demand backups as required,
so you're not limited to only using backup plans.
Some services also support a point in time recovery method, and examples of this include S3 and RDS.
And this means that you can restore to the state of that resource at a specific date and time within the retention window.
Now with all of these features, the product is constantly evolving.
And rather than have this video be out of date the second something changes,
I've attached a few links which detail the current state of many of these features.
And I'd encourage you to take a look when you want to understand the product's up-to-date capabilities when you're watching this video.
Now this is all you need to understand as a base foundation for AWS Backup for all of the AWS exams.
If you need additional knowledge, so more theory detail in general,
perhaps more specialized deep-dive knowledge on the security elements of the product,
or maybe some practical knowledge, then there will be additional videos.
These will only be present if you need this additional knowledge for the particular course that you're studying.
If you only see this video, don't worry, it just means that this is all you need to know.
At this point though, that is everything I wanted to cover.
So go ahead and complete this video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
