Welcome back and in this lesson I want to spend a few minutes just covering the evolution of the elastic load balancer product.
It's important for the exam and real world usage that you understand its heritage and its current state.
Now this is going to be a super quick lesson because most of the detail I'm going to be covering in dedicated lessons which are coming up next in this section of the course.
So let's jump in and take a look.
Now there are currently three different types of elastic load balancers available within AWS.
If you see the term ELB or elastic load balancers then it refers to the whole family, all three of them.
Now the load balancers are split between version 1 and version 2.
You should avoid using the version 1 load balancer at this point and aim to migrate off them onto version 2 products
which should be preferred for any new deployments.
There are no scenarios at this point where you would choose to use a version 1 load balancer versus one of the version 2 types.
Now the load balancer product started with the classic load balancer known as CLB which is the only version 1 load balancer.
And this was introduced in 2009 so it's one of the older AWS products.
Now classic load balancers can load balance HTTP and HTTPS as well as lower level protocols
but they aren't really layer 7 devices.
They don't really understand HTTP and they can't make decisions based on HTTP protocol features.
They lack much of the advanced functionality of the version 2 load balancers and they can be significantly more expensive to use.
One common limitation is that classic load balancers only support one SSL certificate per load balancer
which means for larger deployments you might need hundreds or thousands of classic load balancers
and these could be consolidated down to a single version 2 load balancer.
So I can't stress this enough, for any questions or any real world situations you should default to not using classic load balancers.
Now this brings me on to the new version 2 load balancers.
The first is the Application Load Balancer or ALB and these are truly layer 7 devices so application layer devices.
They support HTTP, HTTPS and the WebSocket protocols.
They're generally the type of load balancer that you'd pick for any scenarios which use any of these protocols.
There's also network load balancers or NLBs which are also version 2 devices but these support TCP, TLS which is a secure form of TCP and UDP protocols.
So network load balancers are the type of load balancer that you would pick for any applications which don't use HTTP or HTTPS.
For example, if you wanted to load balance email servers or SSH servers or a game which used a custom protocol so didn't use HTTP or HTTPS then you would use a network load balancer.
In general, version 2 load balancers are faster and support target groups and rules which allow you to use a single load balancer for multiple things
or handle the load balancing different based on which customers are using it.
Now I'm going to be covering the capabilities of each of the version 2 load balancers separately as well as talking about rules but I wanted to introduce them now as a feature.
Now for the exam you really need to be able to pick between network load balancers or application load balancers for a specific situation.
So that's what I want to work on over the coming lessons.
For now though, this has just been an introduction lesson that talks about the evolution of these products and that's everything that I wanted to cover in this lesson.
So go ahead, complete the lesson and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
