Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to cover two features of EC2, Launch Configurations and Launch Templates.
Now they both perform a similar thing, but Launch Templates came after Launch Configurations and include extra features and capabilities.
Now I want this lesson to be fairly brief, Launch Configurations and Launch Templates are actually relatively easy to understand.
What we're going to be covering in the next lesson is auto-scaling groups which utilise either Launch Configurations or Launch Templates.
So I'll try to keep this lesson as focused as possible, but let's jump in and get started.
Launch Configurations and Launch Templates at a high level perform the same task.
They allow the configuration of EC2 instances to be defined in advance.
They're documents which let you configure things like the AMI to use, the instance type and size, the configuration of the storage which instances use,
and the key pair which is used to connect to that instance.
They also let you define the networking configuration and security groups that an instance uses.
They let you configure the user data which is provided to the instance and the IAM role which is attached to the instance used to provide the instance with permissions.
Everything which you usually define at the point of launching an instance you can define in Launch Configurations and Launch Templates.
Now both of these are not editable, you define them once and that configuration is locked.
Launch Templates as the newer of the two allow you to have versions, but for Launch Configurations versions aren't available.
Launch Templates also have additional features or allow you to control features of the newer types of instances,
things like T2 or T3 unlimited CPU options, placement groups, capacity reservations and things like elastic graphics.
AWS recommend using Launch Templates at this point in time because they're a superset of Launch Configuration.
They provide all of the features that Launch Configuration provides and more.
Architecturally, Launch Templates also offer more utility.
Launch Configurations have one use, they're used as part of auto-scaling groups which we'll be talking about later in this section.
Auto-scaling groups offer automatic scaling for EC2 instances and Launch Configurations provide the configuration of those EC2 instances which will be launched by auto-scaling groups.
And as a reminder, they're not editable nor do they have any versioning capability.
If you need to adjust the configuration inside a Launch Configuration, you need to create a new one and use that new Launch Configuration.
Now Launch Templates, they can also be used for the same thing, so providing EC2 configuration which is used within auto-scaling groups.
But in addition, they can also be used to launch EC2 instances directly from the console or the CLI.
So good old Bob can define his instance configuration in advance and use that when launching EC2 instances.
Now you'll get the opportunity to create and use Launch Templates in the series of demo lessons later in this section.
For now, I just wanted to cover all of the theory back to back so you can appreciate how it all fits together.
That's everything though that I wanted to cover in this lesson about Launch Configurations and Launch Templates.
In the next lesson, I'll be talking about auto-scaling groups which are closely related.
Both of them work together to allow EC2 instances to scale in response to the incoming load on a system.
But for now, go ahead and finish this video and when you're ready, I'll look forward to speaking to you in the next.
