Welcome back, and in this video I want to briefly talk about Amazon AppFlow at a high level.
So in this video I'll be covering the basics. If you need any other knowledge for the course that you're studying, then there will be additional videos.
If you only see this one, don't worry, it's everything that you'll need to know.
Now let's jump in and get started.
AppFlow is an interesting service in that if you've worked in this space and had this specific problem,
you'll immediately see the value that the product provides.
If not, you might not get the point.
AppFlow is a fully managed integration service.
Think of it like middleware. It allows you to exchange data between applications using flows.
So applications are connected to using connectors, and the main unit of configuration of the product is a flow.
Now a flow consists of a source connector and a destination connector, and other optional components.
But at a high level, it's the job of the product to exchange data.
Now examples of this might be to sync data across applications or aggregate data from different sources together to avoid data silos within your organization.
By default, the service uses public endpoints, which allows it to interact with public SaaS applications,
but it can work using PrivateLink to access private sources.
Now it comes with functionality for connecting to many of the most popular applications by default,
but you can use the Custom Connector SDK to build your own.
Now some examples where you might use the product are to sync contact records from Salesforce to Redshift for analysis,
or to copy your support tickets from something like Zendesk into S3 for storage or analysis.
AppFlow is one of those services which can do a lot. If you have a need for this type of functionality, you will immediately understand how awesome it is.
Now visually, this is how the architecture might look. We start with a flow, and into this we configure source and destination connections.
In this case, Slack and Redshift.
Now connections store the configuration and credentials to access an application,
and it's important to understand that they're defined separately from flows, so they can be reused across many different flows.
Now it's using connections with this example that the product knows how to connect to Slack and to Redshift,
and what authentication details to use for both of these applications.
Now next, within the flow, we define source and destination field mappings, as well as any optional data transformation configuration.
This is what, in this example, tells AppFlow what fields we're interested in from Slack and where to write them in Redshift.
We're also able to define optional filtering and validation within the flow to control what data we want to copy and what, if any, checks should be performed en route.
And that, at a high level, is AppFlow. It's designed to enable you to exchange data between applications in a managed way.
A basic architectural understanding is enough knowledge for most of the AWS exams, and if you need to know more, I'll include additional videos.
If you only see this one, this is everything that you need to know.
And at this point, that's everything I'm going to cover in this video, so go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
