Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to go into some more depth about Amazon Cognito,
which is one of the core identity products available within AWS.
Now we do have a lot to cover, so let's jump in and get started.
Now this is going to be one of the most important non-graphical screens of information in the entire course.
I want to make sure that you understand the terrible naming within the Cognito product.
Cognito provides two main pieces of functionality.
Both are very different, but both are essential to understand.
Now the service as a whole provides authentication, authorization, and user management for web and or mobile applications.
Now authentication means to log in to verify credentials.
Authorization means to manage access to services,
and user management means to allow the creation and management of a serverless user database.
Now there are two parts of Cognito, user pools and identity pools, and the naming on these is terrible.
This is why most students struggle to understand the detail of how Cognito works.
The end goal of a user pool is to allow you to sign in, and if successful, you get a JSON web token known as a JWT.
This JWT can be used for authentication with applications.
Certain AWS products, such as API Gateway, can even accept it directly.
But, and this is crucial to understand, most AWS services cannot use JWTs.
To access most AWS services, you need actual AWS credentials.
Now user pools do not grant access to AWS services.
Their job is to control sign in and deliver a JWT.
So they do things like sign up and sign in services.
They also provide a built-in customizable web user interface to sign in users.
They provide certain security features, such as multi-factor authentication.
They check for compromised credentials, and they offer account takeover protection, as well as phone and email verification.
Now you can also implement customized workflows and user migration by using Lambda triggers,
and we'll talk about that, if applicable, elsewhere in the course.
Now where it gets confusing is that user pools, as well as allowing sign in from built-in users,
they also allow social sign in using identities provided by Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple,
as well as offering sign in services using other identity types, such as SAML identity providers.
But the important thing to understand is this is about offering a joined up user management experience.
At no point can a user pool be used to directly access most AWS resources.
When you think of user pools, imagine a database of users, which can include external identities.
They sign in and they get a JWT. That's it.
I'm stressing this point because it's really important to conceptually separate this from an identity pool, which is coming up next.
Now the aim of an identity pool is to exchange a type of external identity for a set of temporary AWS credentials,
which can then be used to access AWS resources.
Now one option is unauthenticated identities, which can be used to offer guest access to AWS resources.
Imagine you have a mobile application and want to allow high scores to be stored in a leaderboard, which is hosted using DynamoDB,
and you want to offer this without a user having to sign up, and this is one way to do that.
Identity pools can also be used to swap an external identity for temporary AWS credentials,
and this means things like Google identity, Facebook, Twitter, SAML 2.0 for corporate logins,
and even user pool identities. So from an identity pool perspective, user pools are just treated as another form of identity.
Now all of these are examples of authenticated identities.
If another identity provider, which we trust, say that they have authenticated successfully,
then identity pools will exchange that identity for temporary AWS credentials.
Now I hope at this point that you do see the difference.
User pools are about offering a joined-up, sign-up, or sign-in experience with user directory and profile management services,
so it's about login and about managing user identities.
Identity pools are about swapping either an unauthenticated or authenticated identity for AWS credentials,
and one possible type of identity is actually a user pool identity,
and this is a reason why these two different components of Cognito are often difficult to separate, because they can operate together.
Now identity pools work by assuming an IAM role on behalf of the identity.
That assumption generates temporary credentials, and they're provided back in return, in most cases to a mobile or web application.
These IAM roles are configured within identity pools, and there's going to be a demo coming up very soon where you can experience that.
Now for the rest of this lesson, let's just step through a few architecture overviews,
and I think doing this visually will help you to understand how the product works.
First, let's step through an architecture which just uses user pools.
Remember, user pools are about user management, sign-in, sign-up, and anything associated with that process,
So we start with a web and mobile application and a Cognito user pool with both internal identities and social sign-in,
so anyone can sign into the pool with any type of identity, and the result is a Cognito user pool token,
also known as a JSON web token or JWT.
This user pool token proves that the identity has been used to sign in, and it now represents a Cognito user pool user.
Whether an internal user is used or a social identity, the authenticated identity is now a user pool identity,
and this token can then be used to access self-managed resources,
such as applications running on servers that you manage, or accessing databases which you also manage.
It can also be used with an API gateway, which is capable of accepting user pool tokens directly.
Remember, these are known as JWTs. An API gateway is capable of accepting JWTs for authentication.
So let's focus for a second on what's just happened.
A user pool is a collection of identities of users.
It's used to allow sign-up and sign-in, both for internal users and social sign-in.
The tokens which are generated as a result can be used for self-managed systems,
and the tokens can be used to authenticate for API gateway.
But, and this is the single biggest thing to remember about Cognito,
these tokens cannot be used to access AWS resources.
In general, that requires AWS credentials, and AWS credentials can be handed out via identity pools.
So let's look at those next.
So we have the same web and mobile application.
This time though, we aren't using user pools.
We're allowing customers to log in directly using external identities.
How this works is as follows.
We start with a collection of supported external identities,
and these include the same social identities which I've demonstrated previously with user pools.
Our application allows users to sign in with any of those external identities.
So when they click on a sign-in button within our application,
they're directed at an external ID provider sign-in page.
You might have experienced one of these before.
This is an example of the sign-in with Google page.
After a customer authenticates with their Google credentials,
which it's worth pointing out that we never have access to,
because this sign-in takes place on the external identity provider.
In any case, we receive a Google token as a result,
but it could be a Facebook token, an Amazon token, or whatever external ID provider is used.
Crucially, it can be one of many different types.
And if we want to support many different external identity providers,
then we need to configure that support.
But now that we have this external ID provider token,
this proves that a user has logged in with an external ID provider.
This token can't be used to access AWS resources,
and that's where identity pools come in handy.
Our application takes this token and passes it to an identity pool that we've configured.
We've configured this to support every external identity that we want to allow logins from.
This is a key thing to keep in mind.
If we want to support five external ID providers,
we need five different configurations,
five different types of token to be supported.
What happens next is that Cognito is configured with roles,
at least one for authenticated identities and one for unauthenticated or guest identities.
In this case, we have an authenticated identity, the Google token.
And so on our behalf, Cognito assumes a role and generates temporary AWS credentials,
which are then passed back to the application.
The application can then use these credentials to access AWS resources.
Once they expire, the application renews them,
again using Cognito, and the process continues.
The permissions the application has are based on the roles permissions.
At no point does the application store any credentials within code or any credentials permanently.
So the process is that an external identity provider authenticates a user,
Cognito identity pools swap the external ID token for temporary credentials,
and these are used to authorize access to AWS resources.
So once again, focus on the fact that user pools are about sign in and sign up for users,
and identity pools are about swapping identity tokens from an external ID provider for temporary AWS credentials.
These are two very different and isolated tasks.
Now you can use user pools and identity pools together to fix one small lingering problem.
With this configuration, your application has to be able to deal with many different ID tokens from many different external providers.
Now one option is that we could use user pools to handle the many different types of identity,
and then we can use identity pools to swap the Cognito user pool token for AWS credentials.
Now the swapping of any external ID provider token for AWS credentials is known as Web Identity Federation,
and you're going to experience that term both in the real world and in the exam.
So let's quickly step through the final architecture which combines both user pools and identity pools.
We start with a user pool, and this is configured to support external identities and its internal store of users.
Whatever is used, whichever identity type is used to log in,
the identity that's authenticated is now a Cognito user pool user.
So there's only one type of token which is generated where the sign-in is using internal users or social sign-in.
This is the user pool token or JWT.
By using a user pool, we've abstracted away from all of the configuration of many different external ID providers.
We have conceptually one user store to manage, one set of user profiles all provided via a Cognito user pool.
So if you log in with a user pool user, or if you log in via the user pool but using Google credentials,
the outcome is the same. A user pool token is returned to the application.
So the user pool simplifies the management of identity tokens.
Next, the application can pass this user pool token into an identity pool,
and this assumes an IAM role defined in the identity pool which generates temporary AWS credentials.
And these temporary credentials are returned to the application.
The benefit to this approach is that the identity pool need only be configured with a single external identity provider, the user pool.
But otherwise the process is the same as using an identity pool directly, just with less admin overhead.
The application can then use those AWS credentials to access AWS resources.
And that's pretty much everything I wanted to cover.
Now in summary, user pools manage user sign-up and user sign-in, either internal or using social logins.
And what you get as a result is a user pool token, also known as JSON web token or JWT,
and that is the output of any form of sign-in using user pools.
Now identity pools swap external identity tokens for AWS credentials.
This process is called federation.
External identity tokens can be direct external identity tokens such as Google, Amazon, Facebook and many others.
Or they can be user pool tokens, which can themselves represent external ID logins.
Once an application uses an identity pool to gain access to temporary AWS credentials, it can access AWS resources.
Now this process allows for a near unlimited number of users.
And unlimited is much more than the 5,000 IAM user limit, which means this is great for web scale applications.
Now you're going to get experience of identity pools in an upcoming advanced demo.
For now though that's everything that I wanted to cover.
Really try to focus on understanding the two different parts of Cognito really well.
I promise it will be helpful for both the exam and for the real world.
Now at this point that's everything I wanted to cover, so thanks for watching.
Go ahead and complete this video and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
