Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to introduce a product which is becoming more important for the exam,
and as a Solutions Architect it's an essential one to understand.
That product is the AWS Global Accelerator.
It's a product which is designed to optimize the flow of data from your users to your AWS infrastructure.
Now we have a fair amount to cover, so let's jump in and take a look.
To understand why Global Accelerator is required, let's review a pretty typical problem when using AWS.
Let's say that you've created an application and you choose to initially host it in the US.
Now it involves cats and so logically it becomes really popular, initially with users based in the US,
and these users generally have a great user experience.
But over time the notoriety of the application increases and it becomes popular with global users,
and these global users have a much less optimal experience.
The reason for their suboptimal experience is that generally the traffic between their locations
and the infrastructure in North America is likely to be less direct.
Conceptually, every flow of data using the internet can take a different route.
Take this example, a communication between a laptop and a VPC.
The communication isn't direct.
Data moves between different routers, different hops.
Each hop adds delay, variability and potential failure.
And what's worse is that the route can vary between customers
and even for the return flow of traffic for the same customer.
Now each of these hops is suboptimal.
The lower the number of hops generally, the better and more consistent the experience.
It means that generally customers who are further away from your infrastructure
go through more internet-based hops and this means a lower quality of connection.
The internet is designed to be distributed, it's designed to be autonomous and highly resilient.
And while speed is important, it's less important than these other priorities.
Now Global Accelerator as a product isn't actually that difficult to understand architecturally.
In many ways its architecture is similar to CloudFront and one of the key things in the exam
is for you to be able to determine when to use CloudFront and when to use Global Accelerator
because they both improve performance but in different ways and for different reasons.
Global Accelerator starts with two Anycast IP addresses.
Now Anycast IP addresses are a special type of IP address.
Normal IP addresses which you will have experienced so far are actually referred to as Unicast IP addresses.
And Unicast IP addresses refer to one thing, one network device.
Generally if you have two devices on a network which use the same Unicast IP address at the same time,
then bad things happen.
In contrast, Anycast IPs are designed to allow this.
They're IP addresses which multiple devices can use and they're advertised onto the public internet.
And internet core routers will route traffic to the device closest to the source.
So with this example we have Anycast IP addresses of 1.2.3.4 and 4.3.2.1.
And both of these map on to three Global Accelerator edge locations.
Now in reality there are many more but I'm trying to keep this diagram tidy.
The key thing to understand is that all three of these Global Accelerator edge locations
are all using this pair of Anycast IP addresses.
So if there's any traffic that's destined for either one of these Anycast IP addresses,
then that can be serviced by any one of the Global Accelerator edge locations.
So in this example if we have two users, one based in London and one based in Australia,
and they browse to either of these Anycast IP addresses,
then they would both be routed to an edge location that's closest to them.
Crucially using the public internet.
This part of the connection is still subject to the variability that the public internet can cause.
But now it's very limited to just the part between the customer and the Global Accelerator edge location.
What we've done is essentially moved the AWS network closer to the customer.
At this point Global Accelerator accepts the data that arrives at one of its edge locations
and it transits that data from that edge location to the destination,
but crucially this transit occurs over the AWS global network.
AWS have their own dedicated network, so fiber links between all of their different regions,
and they control these entirely.
They handle capacity and they handle performance.
And to use their own words, if performance is anything but optimal, you can complain to them.
Now for the exam, I really only need you to understand this architecture,
so that customers will arrive at one of the Global Accelerator edge locations
because they're using one of the Anycast IP addresses that's allocated to us when we create a Global Accelerator.
So we make a Global Accelerator, we create it, we're allocated these two Anycast IP addresses,
and if our customers use these, then their connections will be routed to the closest Global Accelerator edge location.
That part, which is indicated in red on the diagram, that will occur over the public internet.
And so that can be affected by the variability that the public internet suffers from,
but once the traffic has entered the Global Accelerator product,
then it's transited over the AWS global network into our infrastructure platforms,
and the benefit of that is substantially improved performance.
There are less hops, AWS generally maintain the network to a higher standard,
and it's designed and maintained specifically for the transit of data between AWS regions.
So for the exam, just understand the architecture, understand how it works, what it does,
and then finally, when and where to use it.
And regarding those last two criteria, so when and where, I want to talk about some additional points which might help.
So Global Accelerator is very much like CloudFront, so you're okay to be confused.
They both, in their own way, move the AWS network closer to your customers.
Now CloudFront specifically moves the content closer by caching it on the edge locations.
Global Accelerator moves the actual AWS network as close to your customers as possible.
The aim with Global Accelerator is to get your customers onto the global AWS network as quickly as possible,
as close to their location as possible, and this is done using these Anycast IP addresses.
Once the traffic arrives at the edge, it's transited over the AWS global network all the way through to one or more locations.
Now, on the previous screen, I showed you the example with one location of infrastructure.
So we created the Categram application and hosted it in North America.
But Global Accelerator is also capable of routing traffic to the closest infrastructure location to the customer.
It can make the decision to direct connections from London to local infrastructure based in Europe rather than the US.
The key thing that Global Accelerator does is to get the data from your customer to an application endpoint as quickly as possible with the best performance as possible.
Now the one key difference between Global Accelerator and CloudFront, conceptually, is that Global Accelerator is a network product.
It works on any TCP or UDP applications, including web apps, whereas CloudFront only caches HTTP and HTTPS content.
If you see questions which mention caching, then it's probably going to be CloudFront that is the right answer.
But if you see questions which mention TCP or UDP and the requirement for global performance optimization,
then possibly it's going to be Global Accelerator which is the right answer.
Now why I keep mentioning CloudFront is that people tend to confuse them, tend to confuse the situations where you would pick one over the other.
I want to start off with both of these products in your mind and make sure that you understand the points of differentiation.
Global Accelerator doesn't cache anything. It doesn't cache content. It doesn't cache any network data.
It doesn't provide any HTTPS or HTTP level capabilities.
It doesn't understand the protocol for either HTTP or HTTPS. It's a network product.
So if the question gives you a scenario which involves transiting network data, TCP or UDP,
as quickly and efficiently as possible through a global network, then it's likely to be Global Accelerator.
If it mentions content delivery, caching, pre-signed URLs, or any of the other services that CloudFront provides,
then logically it's going to be CloudFront that's the correct answer.
So why it might initially seem confusing, why you might find it a little bit difficult to distinguish between these two products at this point,
it should be obvious that they're completely separate.
If you need to do caching, if you need to deal with web or secure web,
or anything involved with the delivery of content or the manipulation of that content, it's going to be CloudFront.
If you want global TCP or UDP network optimization, then it's going to be Global Accelerator.
At this point though, that's everything that you'll need to know.
So go ahead, complete this video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
