Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to talk about a really effective set of services
which AWS provide for moving data between on-premises and AWS.
So these services are Snowball, Snowball Edge, and the AWS Snowmobile.
Now we've got a lot to cover, so let's jump in and get started.
At a high level, the Snowball series, so Snowball, Snowball Edge, and Snowmobile, are designed
to move large amounts of data in or out of AWS.
In many cases, especially with smaller projects, you can just upload data over an internet
connection or in some cases, if you have specific requirements, you can use Direct Connect.
But there are situations where the amount of data that you need to move makes this impractical,
either because of the speed of your internet connection making a transfer of this size
or because you need to get huge amounts of data into AWS as quickly as possible.
Now the devices in this product series are physical storage units, either suitcase sized
or the size of a truck, literally carried on trucks inside a custom built shipping container.
Now you can either order them empty, load them up with data and then return them to
AWS, or the reverse, so you can order them with data, receive them, empty off the data
and return the appliances to AWS.
Now the key things that you need to know for the Associate Exam is not specifically the
product specifics, but rather when and where you need to use the products.
So you don't need to be aware of the implementation details, just the architecture.
So that's what I want to cover in this lesson, and we're going to start with Snowball.
Now when you're using the Snowball product, it's actually a physical process, you're interacting
physically with AWS.
And so it's a device that you order from AWS, you log a job and the device is delivered
to you, so it's not an instant process.
Any data which is stored on a Snowball is encrypted using KMS, so there's encryption
Anything that's persistently stored on that device is encrypted using KMS.
Now there are two types of Snowball devices, you can get a 50 TB device and an 80 TB device.
Now in terms of network connectivity, you can connect to the Snowball using either 1GB
or 10GB networking, so that's important to make sure that you have that physical, cabled
network connectivity wherever you get the Snowball delivered to, because you will need
to use physical networking.
Now whilst the capacity of the normal Snowball device is either 50 TB or 80 TB, the economical
range for using Snowball is generally within the region of 10 TB to 10 PB of data.
So if the amount of data that you need to transfer in or out of AWS is in that range,
then it tends to be economical to use Snowball rather than transferring the data across the
internet or across Direct Connect or any other connection technology.
For large amounts of data, physical transfer using Snowball is often the most economical.
Now one of the benefits of using Snowball or Snowball Edge that I'll cover next is
that you can order multiple devices, so whilst it's got a 50 or an 80 TB capacity, whilst
the economical range is 10 TB to 10 PB, you can order multiple devices and get them sent
to multiple business premises.
So that is a really important architectural benefit.
You could order 10 Snowballs and have one deployed into each of 10 business premises
and use those devices to ingest data, send it back to AWS and get that data accessible
inside your AWS environment.
So remember for the exam, multiple devices, multiple premises, and try your best to remember
the economical range, so 10 TB to 10 PB.
Now Snowball as a device only includes storage, so it's only a storage device.
It doesn't include any compute capability, and that's important because that's in contrast
to the next product that I want to talk about, which is Snowball Edge.
So Snowball Edge comes with both storage and compute.
So it's like the Snowball product, but in addition, it comes with compute capability.
So architecturally you tend to use Snowball when you've got large amounts of data to
ingest or get out of AWS.
With Snowball Edge, you've got some other architectural patterns that you can use that
involve compute, and we'll talk about that in a second.
Another benefit of Snowball Edge is that it has a larger capacity versus the Snowball
product, and it also offers faster networking.
So you've got 10 GB over RJ45, 10 or 25 over SFP, and then 45, 50 or 100 over QSFP+.
So whatever local connection technology you have, you can generally achieve faster connection
to Snowball Edge versus Snowball.
Now there are actually three different types of Snowball Edge.
First we've got storage-optimized, but there's also a slight variant of the storage-optimized
series which includes EC2 capability.
So by default, the storage-optimized version of Snowball Edge comes with 80 TB of storage,
24 vCPUs, and 32 GIB of memory.
But if you include the EC2 capability option, it also comes with 1 TB of local SSD.
So you can actually run EC2 instances on top of this using that 1 TB of SSD.
Now we've also got compute-optimized variants which include 100 TB of storage plus 7.68
GB of NVMe storage.
So this is storage which is directly attached to the PCI bus.
It's super fast, super low latency, and that's beneficial when you've got aggressive compute
requirements that you want to run on the Snowball Edge.
The compute-optimized also includes 52 virtual CPUs of capacity and 208 GIB of memory.
And then finally, there's also the compute-optimized with GPU capability.
So in addition to all of those above resources, it also includes GPU capability.
So for any scientific analysis, any modeling, or any parallel activities that benefit from a GPU,
then you can also get the Snowball Edge with GPU capability.
Now in terms of when you'd use the Snowball Edge versus the Snowball,
Snowball is older generation, it's purely for storage, Snowball Edge includes compute.
So if you've got any remote sites where you need to perform data processing on data as it's ingested,
then you should use the Snowball Edge.
If you've got higher capacity requirements or you need faster networking, if you do really
have lots of data and you need to make sure that you load it onto the device as quickly
as possible so that you can ship that device back to AWS, then by having the faster networking
provided by the Snowball Edge, the turnaround time can be quicker.
Now the last piece of this product set is the Snowmobile, and the Snowmobile is a portable
data center within a shipping container on a truck.
Now I literally mean this, it is a truck that's delivered to your business premises, on the
back of this truck is a custom designed shipping container, and in that shipping container
is a portable data center.
So this is a product that needs to be specially ordered from AWS.
It's not something that's available in high volume and it's not available everywhere,
it's something that is generally only used when you have a single location with huge
amounts of data that you need to ingest into AWS.
Think about situations where you've got a large enterprise who have a huge amount of
data or maybe you're doing a traditional data center migration of anything over 10 petabytes
of data, that's the type of scenario where you might use a Snowmobile.
Now Snowmobiles can actually store up to 100 petabytes of data per Snowmobile.
Now the process is that you order a Snowmobile, it's driven to your data center location,
the back of the shipping container is opened up and they expect to connect into data center
grade power and data networking.
So essentially this is driven to your location and you physically plug it into your data
center and use it to transfer data into.
Now for the exam, remember it's a single truck.
Why this matters is that it is not economical for smaller than 10 petabytes or when you
have multi-site migrations.
You have to remember that this is one single device, so if you have for example 10 petabytes
of data but that's spread across lots of different sites then logically you would be using the
Snowmobile Edge product.
If you've got all of this data on one single site then potentially it's more economical
to use the Snowmobile.
You can't physically split a Snowmobile into multiple trucks, you can't do a road
trip around your different data centers, a Snowmobile drives out to one location, it's
plugged in, it's used to transfer data into and then it drives off back to AWS.
So if your requirement is multi-site, then unless it really is a huge scale migration
you would not look to use a Snowmobile.
So these are the three different products, the Snowball, the Snowball Edge and the Snowmobile
and it really will benefit you in the exam to understand the exact set of requirements
when you would and wouldn't use each of these products.
I don't expect you to get any questions which test your knowledge in detail, you certainly
won't get any questions where you need to physically know the process of ordering and
the process of transferring but I think from an architectural perspective you will get
massive benefit from knowing the details on each of these products and that's what I've
tried to do in this lesson.
With that being said that is everything I wanted to cover in this lesson so go ahead
and complete the video and then when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me
in the next.
