Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to talk about AWS Direct Connect.
A Direct Connect is a physical connection into an AWS region.
If you order this via AWS, then this connection is either a 1GB, 10GB, or 100GB at the time of creating this lesson.
There are other ways to provision slower speeds, but I'll be covering those in a dedicated lesson later in this section of the course.
The connection is between a business premises, a Direct Connect or DX location, and finally an AWS region.
And I'll show this architecture visually on the next screen.
Conceptually think of three different physical locations.
So your business premises where you have a customer premises router, a DX location where you also have other equipment such as a DX router and maybe some servers,
and then finally an AWS region such as US East 1.
When you order a DX connection, what you're actually ordering is a network port at the DX location.
AWS provide a port allocation. That's it.
They also authorize you to connect to that port, and I'll detail that process very soon.
But a Direct Connect which is ordered directly from AWS doesn't actually provide a connection of any kind.
It's just a physical port.
It's up to you to connect to this directly or arrange the connection to be extended via a third party comms provider.
Now the port has two costs.
You have an hourly cost based on the DX location together with the speed of the port, and then there's a charge for outbound data transfer.
Inbound data transfer is free of charge.
Now there are a couple of important things to keep in mind about Direct Connect.
The first is the provisioning time.
AWS will take time to allocate a port, and then once allocated you will need to arrange connection into that port at the DX location.
If you want to connect the DX location to your business network and haven't already done so,
then you might be looking at weeks or months of extra time for the physical laying of cables between the DX location and your business premises.
So keep that in mind.
Now because it's a physical cable, there's no built-in resilience.
If the cable is cut, the cable is cut.
You can design in resilience by using multiple Direct Connects, but that's something that you have to layer on top.
Direct Connects provide low latency, and that's because data isn't transiting across the public internet like with, say, a VPN.
It also provides consistent latency as you're using a single physical cable at best or a small number of private networking links at worst.
In any case, if you need low and consistent latency for an application, then Direct Connect is the way to go.
In addition, it's also the best way to achieve the highest speeds for hybrid networking within AWS.
As above, it can be provisioned with one, ten, or a hundred gigabit speeds.
And because it's a dedicated port, you're very likely to achieve the maximum possible speed of that port.
Now contrast that with, say, an IPsec VPN which uses encryption, so requires processing overhead, and transits over the public internet,
and you can see how Direct Connect is going to give higher, more consistent speeds.
And then lastly, Direct Connect can be used to access AWS private services running in a VPC and AWS public services.
It cannot be used to access the public internet unless you add a proxy or other networking appliance to do that on your behalf.
So visually, this is the architecture of Direct Connect.
We start on the right with your business premises, and inside it will be some kind of customer premises router or firewall.
This might be the same router which is connected to your internet connection, or it might be a new, dedicated, DX-capable router.
And I'll talk more about what this means in an upcoming lesson.
Additionally, you're going to have some staff, in this case, Bob and Julie.
Now next, in the middle, we have a DX location.
This part is often confusing because this is not a location which is actually owned by AWS.
It's not an AWS building at all.
It's often a regional, large data center within which AWS rents space, but your business might also rent space together with other businesses.
Inside this DX location, conceptually, there's going to be an AWS cage, which is an area owned by AWS,
and this contains one or more DX routers, known as AWS DX routers, which are the endpoints of the Direct Connect service.
Often, you'll also rent space at this DX location, and this is known as the customer cage, and this is where things can start to differ.
If you're a large organization, you might rent this space directly, in which case it might have some of your other infrastructure together with a router.
So this is known as the customer DX router.
Now if you're a smaller organization, then this cage might belong to a communications partner, and this is known as the comms, or communications partner, cage.
So if you don't have space within a DX location, the communications partner does, and they extend any connections from this DX location into your business premises.
The key thing to understand about Direct Connect is that it's a port allocation.
You order a Direct Connect from AWS at a specific DX location, and you're allocated a DX port.
This needs to be connected physically with a fiber optic cable to another port in the DX location.
So this is either your router in your cage at the DX location, or it's a communication partner's router, which is also located at the DX location.
Now in either case, you're going to have a corresponding port within the DX location, either your equipment or a comms provider equipment.
And between these two ports, you're going to order a Cross Connect.
It's a connection between the Direct Connect port within the AWS cage in the DX location and either a port on your router or a communications partner router also within the DX location.
And this is really important to understand. Whether you have equipment within the DX location directly or whether you purchase this capacity from a communications partner,
you will be given a port within the DX location, and it's to this port that you will use a Cross Connect.
And this is a physical cable that connects the AWS DX port with your port on either your or a communication partner router.
Now if you are using a communications partner, then this link can be further extended through to your customer premises.
But in either case, you do have to have a port within either a customer cage or a comms partner cage at the DX location,
because this is what you will use to connect using a Cross Connect through to the AWS DX port.
Now at the left side we have an AWS region, in this case AP Southeast 2.
And then inside this a VPC with a private subnet containing some services.
And then we have the AWS public zone and also some example services, in this case SQS, any elastic IP addresses for that region and S3.
Now the AWS region is AWS owned infrastructure.
It might be running from the same physical facilities as the DX location or it might be different,
but in either case it's connected with multiple resilient high speed network connections.
Conceptually just think about it as something which is always connected with one or more local DX locations.
So that's the physical architecture and I'm going to be going into much more detail in upcoming lessons elsewhere in the course.
Logically we have to configure virtual interfaces over this single physical connection.
And these are called VIFs and I'll be covering these in depth very soon.
There are three types of VIFs.
First, transit VIFs which have a very specific use case and I'll be talking about these in detail elsewhere in the course.
Second, we have public VIFs which are used to access the AWS public space services.
And a public VIF being a virtual interface runs over the end to end direct connect from your customer router
through to the customer DX router into the AWS DX router and then into the public part of the AWS region.
You also have private VIFs which run over the direct connect,
but connect into virtual private gateways which are attached to a VPC.
And these provide access to private AWS services.
At this point though that's everything I wanted to cover,
so go ahead and complete this lesson and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
