Welcome to this video where I'm going to very briefly talk about AWS Transfer Family.
Now this is going to be an introduction video.
If the topic you're studying requires any additional information,
either theory or practical, then there will be additional videos.
If not, then this is all that you need to know. Now I want to keep
this video as brief as possible, so let's jump in
and get started. So AWS Transfer Family is a product
which provides a managed file transfer service. So it allows you
to transfer files to or from
S3 and EFS. Now the reason
that it's managed is that it provides managed servers
which support various protocols. So this product
allows you to upload and download data to
and from EFS and S3 using protocols
other than those two native protocols. So if you need to access
S3 or EFS and not use S3
or EFS natively, then Transfer Family is the product
which allows this. So it allows you to interact with both of these services
using a number of common protocols. First
is FTP, which is the File Transfer Protocol,
and this is an unencrypted file transfer protocol.
This is a legacy protocol, it's been around for decades, it's unencrypted
and so the usage of it is relatively niche.
You've also got File Transfer Protocol Secure
or FTPS, and this is the File Transfer Protocol
but with TLS encryption. This is something which adds additional layers of
functionality to FTP.
We've also got the Secure Shell or
SSH File Transfer Protocol, known as
SFTP. So this is file transfer
running over the top of SSH. And then lastly we have the Applicability
Statement 2
or AS2 protocol, and this is used for transferring
structured business to business data. Now this is relatively niche but it was
added to the product because this is relatively common in certain
industry sectors. So you might use AS2 in industries
where workflows with compliance requirements, so data protection
and security features need to be built into the protocol. You might use
AS2 for various supply chain logistics processes,
payment workflows, or other business to business transactions,
or integrations with enterprise resource planning
and customer relationship or CRM systems.
So using AS2 is something that you'll only be doing
in a certain set of niche situations and you'll know
that you need this protocol. FTP, FTPS
and SFTP are much more common and you'll generally find these
in a wide variety of industries. Now Transfer Family
also supports a wide variety of identity providers, so the service can have
built-in identities.
You can utilize the directory service product of AWS
or you can use custom identity providers
and this uses Lambda or API Gateway. And then lastly one really important feature
of Transfer Family is the Managed
File Transfer Workflows or MFTW
and you can think of this as a serverless file workflow engine.
So this can be used for when files are uploaded to the product,
you can define a workflow as to what happens to that file
as it gets uploaded. So things like notification
or tagging. And this can be really effective if you need to build in the
Transfer Family
as part of other process-based workflows that you have within your business.
So with Transfer Family you get access to all of these different
file transfer protocols via a Transfer Family server
within AWS without the need to manage any
server infrastructure. So if you need to interact with S3
or EFS using existing workflows where you can't change your applications
then you can use Transfer Family. Now let's take a look visually
at the architecture of the product. So at a high level
this is how Transfer Family works. So we have an AWS environment
and inside we have S3 and EFS
and we want to grant access to either or both of these to an external user.
And let's say it's a medical user of some kind
and they want to use the SFTP protocol.
Now to do that we'd configure Transfer Family and with Transfer Family we
create
servers which are enabled for one or more protocols.
These servers are configured to communicate with our backend
storage resources using IAM roles
in order to get permissions. Now once this is configured
it means that our user can access these resources potentially
using a custom DNS name using a protocol
which they support and not the native S3
or EFS access methods. And as I mentioned moments ago Transfer Family supports
a range of authentication methods including
built-in identities, directory service within AWS
or a custom identity store. Now that's how the service works from a high-level
architecture perspective but there is additional information that you'll need
for the real world
and the AWS exams where it features.
So let's take a look at how we can connect to the service over various
different networking architectures. Within Transfer Family
you create servers which you can think of as the front
and access points to your storage. So they present
the supporting backend storage so S3
and EFS via one or more supported protocols
so SFTP, FTPS,
FTP and AS2. Now how you're able to access these depends on how you configure
the services endpoints and we have three different options
public, VPC with internet access
and VPC internal only. With public
the endpoint is running in the AWS public zone
and so it's accessible from the public internet. This means that there's nothing
to configure
you don't need to configure anything in the way of networking
or have to worry about VPCs or any
other networking components but it does come
with some shortcomings. First the only supported protocol
is SFTP. Second the endpoint has a dynamic
IP which can change and this is managed by AWS so you should
generally use DNS to access it
and then finally it means that you can't control who can access it
using features such as network access control lists
or security groups. Next we have the endpoint types which run
in a VPC and much of this is shared between the two so both run
inside a VPC. With the VPC
internet type you can use SFTP
and FTPS endpoints and also
AS2. I keep this separate because it's a pretty niche
use case right now and most uses of this product you'll tend to find
will be the usual file transfer protocols
now with the internal only VPC
endpoint type you can use SFTP
FTPS and FTP
in addition to AS2 and this makes sense
because FTP which is the one additional protocol
which is supported with VPC internal only
is unencrypted so this is not something you'll want to be running
over the public internet. Now both of these types can be
accessed from connected business networks so anything that's using direct
connect
and VPNs so anything which has connectivity
into the VPC can access this service
as though it was inside the VPC
in both cases TransferFamily provides static
IPs and both can be secured using network access control lists
or security groups so this is a security benefit
versus the public endpoint type. The main difference
is that the VPC internet type is allocated with an elastic
and this is static and it allows it to be accessible
over the public internet in addition
to within the VPC and from corporate networks
so this is the level of detail which you need to understand
as a foundation. If for the course that you're studying you need to know
anything else then there will be additional theory or practical videos
following this one. If not don't worry this is everything
that you'll need to understand. Now a few final points
about the AWS TransferFamily
it is multi-AZ. The cost is based on provisioned
server per hour and data transferred through the product
so this product does not have any upfront costs
and you're only billed while you're utilizing the product
with FTP and FTPS only
directory service or custom identity providers
are supported so remember that and for the FTP protocol
you can only use it internally within a VPC
this one can't be public which means you can't use it with the public endpoint
type and can't use it
with the VPC internet endpoint type. Now with the
AS2 protocol this needs to be VPC
internet or internal only. This cannot use the public
endpoint type. So you'd use this product if you need access to
S3 or EFS using existing protocols
potentially integrating it with your existing
workflows where you can't change the protocol that's used
or potentially using the managed file transfer workflow feature
in order to create new workflows with the product
now as I mentioned at a high level this is the knowledge that you need
across any AWS exams which feature this product
if there is any additional theory or practical knowledge that you need to know
there will be follow-up videos to this one but at this point that's
everything I want to cover in this video so go ahead and complete the video
and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next
