Welcome back and in this lesson I want to cover the FSx product, specifically FSx for Windows File Server.
FSx is a shared file system product but it handles the implementation in a very different way than say EFS, which we've covered earlier in the course.
Now FSx for Windows File Server is one of the core components of the range of services that AWS provide to support Windows environments in AWS.
For a fair amount of AWS's history, its support of Windows environments was pretty bad. It just didn't seem to be a priority.
Now this changed with FSx for Windows File Server, which provides fully managed native Windows file servers, or more specifically, file shares.
You're provided with file shares as your unit of consumption. The servers themselves are hidden.
It's similar to how RDS is architected, but instead of databases, you get file shares.
Now it's a product which is designed for integration with Windows environments. It's a native Windows file system. It's not an emulated file server.
It can integrate with either managed active directory or self-managed active directory, and this can be running inside AWS or on-premises.
And this is a critical feature for enterprises who already have their own active directory provision.
Now it's a resilient and highly available system, and it can be deployed in either single or multi-AZ mode.
Picking between the two controls the network interfaces which are available and are used to access the product.
It uses elastic network interfaces inside the VPC. The backend, even in single AZ mode, uses replication within that availability zone to ensure that it's resilient to hardware failure.
But if you pick multi-AZ, then you get a fully multi-AZ, highly available solution.
Now it can also perform a full range of different types of backups, and this includes some client-side and AWS-side features, and I'll talk about that later in the lesson.
But from an AWS side, it can perform both automatic and on-demand backups.
Now file systems that are created inside the FSx product are accessible within a VPC, but also, and this is how more complex environments are supported,
they can be accessed over peering connections, over VPN connections, and even can be accessed over physical direct connects.
So if you're a large enterprise with a dedicated private link into a VPC, then you can access FSx file systems over direct connect.
Now in the exam, when you're faced with any questions which talk about shared file systems, you need to be looking to identify any Windows-related keywords.
So look for things like native Windows file systems, look for things like Active Directory or Directory Service Integration,
and look for any of the more advanced features which I'll talk about over the remainder of this lesson.
Essentially, your job in the exam needs to be to pick when to use FSx versus EFS, because these are both network shared file systems that you'll find on the exam.
Generally, EFS tends to be used for shared file systems for Linux EC2 instances as well as Linux on-premises servers, whereas FSx is dedicated for Windows environments.
So that's the main distinction between these two different services.
So let's have a look visually at how a typical implementation of FSx for Windows file server might look for an Animals for Life type organization.
So we start with a familiar architecture. We have a VPC on the left and a corporate network on the right,
and these networks are connected with Direct Connect or VPN and have some on-premises staff members.
Now inside the VPC we have two availability zones, A and B, and in each of those availability zones we have two different private subnets.
FSx uses Active Directory for its user store, and so logically we start with a directory,
and this can either be a managed directory delivered as a service from AWS or it can be something which is on-premises.
Now this is important, FSx can integrate with both, and it doesn't actually need an Active Directory service defined inside the directory services product.
Instead, it can connect directly to Active Directory running on-premises.
This is critical to understand because it means it can integrate with a completely normal implementation of Active Directory that most large enterprises already have.
Now I already mentioned this on the previous screen, but FSx can be deployed either in single AZ or multi AZ mode,
and in both of those it needs to be connected to some form of directory for its user store.
Now once deployed you can create a network share using FSx, and this can be accessed in the normal way
using the double backslash DNS name and share notation that you'll be familiar with if you use Windows environments.
So in this example, a filesystemid.animalsforlife.org and then a slash catpix, and in this example, catpix is the actual share.
Now using this access path, the filesystem can be accessed from other AWS services which use Windows-based storage,
and an example of this is WorkSpaces, which is a virtual desktop service similar to Citrix which is available inside AWS.
So when you deploy WorkSpaces into a VPC, not only does it require a directory service to function,
but for any shared filesystem needs, it can also use FSx.
The most important thing to remember about FSx is that it is a native Windows filesystem.
It supports things like deduplication, the distributed filesystem or DFS,
which is a way Windows can group file shares together and scale out for a more managed file share structure at scale.
It supports at-rest encryption using KMS, and it also lets you enforce encryption in transit.
Shares are accessed using SMB protocol, which is standard in Windows environments, and FSx even allows for volume shadow copies,
which in this context are a way that users can see multiple file versions and initiate restores from the client side.
So that's really important to understand. If you're utilizing an FSx share from a Windows environment,
you can right-click on a file or folder, view previous versions, and initiate file-level restores
without having to use AWS or engage with a system administrator,
and that's something that's provided along with the FSx product.
As long as it's integrated with Windows environments, you get that capability.
Now from a performance perspective, FSx is highly performant.
The performance that's delivered can range from anywhere from 8 megabytes per second to 2 gigabytes per second.
It can deliver hundreds of thousands of IOPS, and it delivers less than a 1 millisecond latency.
So it can scale up to whatever performance requirements your organization has.
Now for the exam, you don't need to be aware of the implementation details,
and I'm trying inside this course to focus really on the topics and services that you need for the exam.
So when things do occur, I want to teach you more information than you do require for the exam,
but there are a lot of topics or features of different services that you only require a high-level overview of,
and this is one of those topics.
So what I want to do now is go through some keywords or features that you should be on the lookout
when you see any exam questions that you think might be related to FSx.
Now the first one of these is VSS, and this is a Windows feature that allows users to perform file and folder-level restores.
So this is one of the features that's provided that's unique to FSx,
and it means that if you have any users of workspaces, if they use files and folders on an FSx share,
and they right-click, they can view previous versions,
they can restore from a user-driven perspective without having to engage a system administrator.
So this might come up in the exam.
Another thing you need to be aware of is that FSx provides native Windows file systems that are accessible over SMB.
So if you see SMB mentioned in the exam, it's probably going to be FSx as the default correct answer.
Remember, the EFS file system uses the NFS protocol,
and this is only accessible from Linux EC2 instances or Linux on-premises servers.
If you see any mention of SMB, then you can be almost certain that it's a Windows environment question and involves FSx.
Another key feature provided by FSx is that it uses the Windows permission model.
So if you're used to managing permissions for folders or files on Windows file systems,
then you'll be used to exactly how FSx handles permissions.
So this is provided natively by the product specifically to support Windows environments in AWS.
Next is that the product supports DFS, which is the Distributed File System.
So if you see that mentioned either its full name or DFS, then you know that this is going to be related to FSx.
So DFS is a way that you can natively scale out file systems inside Windows environments.
You can either group file shares together in one enterprise-wide structure,
or you can use DFS for replication or scaling out performance.
It's a really capable Distributed File System.
Now if you see any questions which talk about the provision of a native Windows file server,
but where the admin overhead of running a self-managed EC2 instance running something like Windows Server is not ideal,
then you know that it's going to be FSx.
So FSx provides you with the ability to provision a native Windows file server with file shares,
but without the admin overhead of managing that server yourself.
And lastly, the product is unique in the sense that it delivers these file shares,
and they can also be integrated with either Directory Service or your own Active Directory directly.
So these are really important things to remember for the exam,
and they'll help you select between other products and FSx.
Now again, I don't expect you to get many questions on FSx.
I do know at least one or two unique questions in the exam,
but even if it only gets you that one extra mark, it can be the difference between a pass and a fail.
So try your best to remember all of the key features that I've explained throughout this lesson.
But at that point, that is everything I wanted to cover in this Theory Only lesson.
So go ahead, complete this video, and then when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
