Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to talk about AWS Shield, which is an essential tool to protect any internet-connected environment from distributed denial of service attacks.
Now it's important for the exam, but especially so for the real world, so let's jump in and get started.
So AWS Shield actually comes in two forms, Shield Standard and Shield Advanced.
Both of them provide protection against DDoS attacks, but there's a huge difference in their respective capabilities.
First, Shield Standard is free for AWS customers, whereas Shield Advanced is a commercial extra product, which comes with additional costs and benefits, which I'll detail later in this lesson.
The product protects against three different types, or layers, of DDoS attack.
Now I've covered these in the DDoS lesson in the technical fundamental section of the course, but as a reminder, these categories are network volumetric attacks,
so these are things which operate at layer 3 of the OSI 7-layer model, and these are designed to simply overwhelm the system being attacked, so to direct as much raw network data at a target as possible.
Next, we have network protocol attacks, such as SYN floods, and these operate at layer 4 of the OSI model.
Now there are various types of protocol attack, but one common one is to generate a huge number of connections from a spoofed IP address and then just leave these connections open,
so never terminating them, and while the CPU memory and data resources of the target will be fine, its ability to service real connections will be impacted by the huge volume of fake ones.
To understand this, imagine a call center where people call up and just leave the phone line silent.
The operators won't be doing anything, but there won't be capacity for new calls to be answered.
Now network protocol attacks can also be combined with volumetric attacks, but by default, you should view these as two different things.
Lastly, we have application layer attacks, which operate at layer 7, for example, web request floods.
Imagine you have a part of your web app which allows searches.
Think of something like this, which lets you search for every cat image in the world ever.
From the perspective of the attacker, this uses almost no resources to run.
It can be done hundreds, thousands, or millions of times per second.
But from the perspective of the system being attacked, this might take two to three seconds to return data, maybe even more.
And so it's possible to DDoS the system by using the application as intended, where certain parts of the application are cheap to request, but expensive to deliver the result.
So those are the types of things which Shield protects against.
Now I want to spend a little time delving deeper into the capabilities of Shield Standard and Advanced, together with the differences.
And I want to focus on when you might pick one versus the other.
So let's start with Shield Standard.
Shield Standard, as I mentioned earlier, is free for all AWS customers, so you benefit from its protection automatically without you having to do anything.
The protection is at the perimeter of the network, which can either be in your region, meaning as data flows into a VPC, or it can be at the edge of the AWS network if you use CloudFront or Global Accelerator.
Shield Standard protects against common network or transport layer attacks, so that's attacks at layer 3 or 4 of the OSI 7 layer model.
Now you get the best protection if you use Route 53, CloudFront or Global Accelerator.
Now Shield Standard doesn't provide much in the way of proactive capability or any form of explicit configurable protection.
It's just there working away in the background.
Now that's the foundation, the baseline of the product.
Now let's look at what extra things Shield Advanced offers.
So Shield Advanced, as a starting point, is a commercial product.
In fact, it costs 3,000 US dollars per month per organization.
Now this is important, it's not per AWS account.
If you have multiple accounts where you're wanting the advanced level of protection that Shield Advanced offers, then just make sure they're in the same AWS organization, and you can share the one single investment.
Now the cost, while it is per month, is part of a one year commitment.
So at 3k per month, this means 36,000 dollars per calendar year.
And there's also a charge for data out for using the product.
Now Shield Advanced protects more than standard.
It covers CloudFront, Route 53, Global Accelerator, anything associated with elastic IPs, for example EC2.
It also covers application, classic, and network load balancers.
It's a comprehensive set of DDoS protections for your network perimeter.
Now what's really important to understand as a concept is that the protections offered by Shield Advanced are not automatic.
You need to explicitly enable protections either in Shield Advanced or as part of AWS Firewall Manager when using Shield Advanced policies.
It's an explicit act, remember that.
You might find a question on the exam where you need to answer whether these protections require explicit configuration or they happen in the background.
Now Shield Advanced offers two other really important benefits, and it's important to understand that these are not technical functionality differences, but they're important nonetheless.
First, you get cost protection.
And this means that if you as a customer incur any costs for any attacks which should be mitigated by AWS Shield Advanced but aren't, then you're protected against those costs.
And an example of this might be EC2 scaling events caused by excessive load.
Now there are restrictions, it needs to be something Shield Advanced should cover, and you should have enabled the coverage on that resource.
Now I've included a link attached to this video which covers this particular feature in much more detail.
You don't need to understand the detail for the exam, but for the real world it's good knowledge to have.
Now the other benefit is a proactive style of management as well as access to the AWS Shield Response Team, known as SRT.
With proactive management, the Shield Response Team contacts you directly when the availability or performance of your application is affected because of a possible attack.
And this provides the quickest level of response, it allows the Shield Response Team to begin troubleshooting even before they've established contact with you the customer.
Now to use this you need to provide your contact details in advance and enable the feature.
And when you do, the Shield Response Team will contact you when any attacks are detected.
You can also contact the Shield Response Team to log support tickets, and the SLA for this depends on your support plan.
It might be 1 hour or 15 minutes, these are all things that you need to think about and decide upon upfront.
Now let's step through some of the technical ways in which Shield Advanced helps us.
The first unique feature of Shield Advanced is the integration with the Web Application Firewall.
Shield Advanced uses the Web Application Firewall to implement its protection against Layer 7 attacks.
And if you have a Shield Advanced subscription, this includes basic WAF fees to implement these protections.
This is one of the differences and feature benefits which Shield Advanced provides over Shield Standard, and so it's an important one to keep in mind.
Another benefit that Shield Advanced provides is advanced real-time metrics and reports for DDoS events and attacks.
And these can be accessed via the Shield Advanced console or APIs and via CloudWatch.
Now if you have a business need for Shield Advanced, if you can justify the cost, you're also going to have a need for this enhanced level of visibility.
So this is another one to keep in mind.
You also have health-based detection, and this is using Route 53 health checks to implement application-specific health checks.
Now this allows you to reduce any false positives detected by AWS Shield.
And it's used alone or in combination with the proactive engagement team to provide faster detection and mitigation of any issues.
Health-based detection is actually a requirement for using the proactive engagement team.
Again, another important thing to remember.
Now lastly you also have protection groups, and you can use protection groups to create groupings of resources which Shield Advanced protects.
You can define the criteria for membership in a protection group so any new resources are automatically included.
And with these groups you gain the ability to manage protection at a group level versus a resource level, which can significantly decrease the admin overhead of using the product.
Now at this point that's everything I wanted to cover about AWS Shield at a high level.
If the topic that you're studying requires any additional detail, there will be additional deep-dive lessons.
If not, don't worry, this is everything that you need to know.
But at this point, that's the end of this video, so go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
