Welcome back, and in this video I'm going to be talking about Amazon Inspector.
Now this is a service which is really simple to use, and it only features in a relatively minor way on most of the AWS exams.
So this is a fundamental video. If appropriate for the course that you're taking, I'll be going into much more detail in separate videos.
For this video, you just need to have a basic awareness of what this product does and how to use it effectively.
Now nearly all of my lessons contain visuals because I find this helps students to learn better.
But in this case Inspector is just one of those services which is easy to understand but very detailed in terms of what it does.
And unfortunately this means it's going to be a text heavy lesson. So let's jump in and get started.
Amazon Inspector is a product designed to check EC2 instances, the operating systems running on those instances,
as well as container workloads for any vulnerabilities or deviations against best practice.
The idea is to run an assessment of varying lengths, say 15 minutes, 1, 8 or 12 hours and even 1 day,
and identify any unusual traffic or configurations which put applications on the instances, the instances themselves or containers at risk.
Now at the end of this process the product will provide you with a review of findings ordered by severity.
In the exam, if you see anything about a security report, then think Inspector.
But remember it's checking instances, their operating systems, containers and any other networking components involved.
Now Inspector can work with two main types of assessments.
A network assessment can be conducted without using an Inspector agent, but adding an agent provides additional, richer information.
It can also run a network and or host assessment which does use an agent.
The host assessment looks at OS-level vulnerabilities and this needs access to inside of the instance, so the instance OS, and this requires an agent.
With Inspector, rules packages determine what is checked.
The first package, network reachability, which can be done with no agent or with an agent for additional, rich information.
This checks how an instance or group of instances is exposed to public networks.
So it checks end-to-end reachability, so EC2, application load balances, direct connect, elastic load balances, network interfaces, internet gateways,
access control lists, route tables, security groups.
It even checks subnet and VPC configuration and even exposure from virtual private gateways and any VPC peering.
The network reachability rules package returns the following types of findings.
First, for recognized ports, so well-known ports, it confirms if the port is recognized with a listener, i.e. is it exposed to the public networks,
and is the operating system listening on that port, or recognized port no listener, where it's exposed to the internet but with nothing listening,
or if you don't use an agent, a recognized port which is exposed, but there is no agent to check if the operating system is listening,
and this is why using an agent always adds more information versus no agent.
Now lastly, it can identify any unrecognized ports which are exposed with listeners.
So for the exam, this is what the network reachability rules package does.
You might see that term, you need to know what it does, or it might request you to suggest a product which can do this type of analysis,
and then question whether an agent is required, and so these are all key points to understand.
We also have rules packages which do require an agent, so host assessments, and all of these are really, really important to remember for the exam.
These are pure keywords, so easy to remember but massively important.
First, there is the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, or CVE, package, and CVE is a database of known cyber security vulnerabilities,
each of which is assigned a CVE number, and this package checks against those.
If you see CVE in the exam, think Inspector, and a report will include any CVE IDs for anything found on the instances or containers.
Next, we have the Center for Internet Security, or CIS, benchmarks.
The formal definition is the CIS Security Benchmark Program provides well-defined, unbiased, consensus-based industry best practices
to help organizations assess and improve their security. This rules package checks against that.
So again, if you see CIS as an exam question, think Inspector.
Then finally, we have Security Best Practices for Inspector, which is just a collection of best practices provided by Amazon,
including things like disabling root login over SSH, using only modern version numbers for SSH, password complexity checks, and permissions on certain folders.
Again, if you see anything of this nature in the exam, think Inspector.
And that really is everything that you need to know at this fundamental level for this product.
Again, if you're studying for a particular exam which requires more information, I will have additional videos covering everything else in depth.
This is just a fundamental 101 level lesson.
Now you'll know by now I do hate teaching based on just keywords,
but this is one of those outliers where you don't really need to know all of the details.
But I don't want you dropping exam marks because you don't know any of these really valuable keywords.
And again, I'm just going to repeat this one more time.
If applicable for the course that you're studying, I'll be covering Inspector in much more detail in other dedicated lessons.
For now though, that is everything I wanted to cover.
So go ahead and complete this video.
And when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
