Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to talk about DynamoDB TTL, which stands for
Time to Live. It's a pretty simple concept to understand fully, but really powerful,
and it's one that you'll need to understand for the exam and in the real world. So let's
jump in and I'll try to make this one as brief as possible.
Let's say within DynamoDB that we have this table. I'm only showing three items, but
let's assume that the table has three million. It has a partition key in blue on the left
and a sort key in green next to that. And in addition to that, it has three attributes
– yellow in the middle of the table, then red and then pink. Now for that table there
are going to be many partitions which support the operations on that table, and here I'm
just showing two. One partition which stores any items which use the dark blue partition
key value, and another one which stores currently the two items with a light blue partition
key value. Now the TTL feature lets you define a timestamp, which allows items in a table
to be automatically deleted at a certain point in time. You're defining when an item is
no longer required, so per item you specify a date and a time, and at that point the item
is marked as expired and then deleted. Now let's step through how this works. First
on a table you need to enable TTL and pick an attribute to be used for the TTL processors.
The attribute should then contain a number. It's a value in seconds, the seconds since
the epoch, which is the 1st of January 1970. So if you want an item to expire in one week's
you need to find out how many seconds since that date one week from now is, and then put
that into the attribute that you pick for TTL, and you should do that on all items which
you want to be affected by the TTL processors. So when you configure TTL on a table, what
it actually does is it configures automated processors which run on every partition of
that table. The first process periodically scans all items in a partition, comparing
the value in the TTL attribute with the current date and time in epoch format. In effect it's
checking if the item should still be viewed as valid. Where any value in the TTL attribute
is less than the current date and time, so when the item is no longer valid, that item
is set to expired. They aren't deleted yet, they can still be queried and viewed in the
table, they're just expired. Next, another automated process which runs periodically
and which is independent of the initial one, this runs also on all of these partitions.
This time it's looking for any items which are set as expired, and when it finds any
items these items are deleted from the partitions, meaning they're removed from the table. They're
also removed from any indexes, and a delete is also added to any strings configured on
the table. Now these delete operations are system events, they run in the background
and don't cause any performance issues, nor do they have a charge. You can also in
addition configure a stream on the actual TTL processors, and this creates a 24 hour
window of any deletions which are caused by those TTL processors, and this is useful if
you want to have any housekeeping processes where you track the TTL events which occur
on tables, so potentially things like an undelete function, or some kind of table auditing.
So this is key to understand, delete events are placed into a normal table stream along
with any creates or modifies, but in addition you can create a dedicated stream which is
linked to the TTL processors, so you can get a 24 hour rolling window of just those deletes.
So TTL in summary allows you to define a per item timestamp which determines when an
item is no longer needed. It's useful if you store items which lose relevance after
a specific time, for example removing user or sensor data after one year of inactivity
in an application, or retaining sensitive data for a certain amount of time, maybe you
have regulatory or contractual obligations which mean you need to retain data for say
one year, three years or five years, then you can configure those within a TTL attribute
and DynamoDB will automatically remove items once they're no longer relevant. Now that's
everything I wanted to cover in this lesson, so go ahead and complete the lesson and when
you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
