Welcome back and in this lesson I want to talk in a little bit more detail about the backups and resilience options we have with Redshift.
In the last lesson you learned how Redshift functions within a single availability zone and so it's at risk from the failure of that availability zone.
Based on this as a solutions architect you need to ensure that you design your systems with this in mind.
So let's step through the options that we have and I'll try to keep this nice and brief because it's really a continuation of what I covered in the previous lesson.
Now let's say that we have a Redshift cluster in US East 1. It's simplified a bit and so it only has two availability zones, availability zone A and availability zone B.
And as we know now Redshift runs from only one of them, in this example availability zone B.
Now this means that if we have a failure in availability zone B we have problems, the entire cluster will fail and any data it's managing will be at risk.
Redshift provides a number of useful recovery features. First it can utilise S3 for backups in the form of snapshots.
Now there are two types of backups supported by the system. Automatic backups which occur once every 8 hours or so or every 5 GB of data change and these occur automatically into S3.
They have by default a one day retention period configurable for anything up to 35 days and you get backup capacity totalling the capacity of your cluster for free included in the price of the cluster.
Now the snapshots are incremental so only the data changed is stored and charged for.
There are also manual snapshots which are performed explicitly by a person or a script or a management application and these have no retention, they last until they're removed by a manual process.
For both types of backups because they're stored on S3 you immediately benefit from the resilience profile of S3, meaning that data is replicated between three or more availability zones in that same region.
So while Redshift isn't resilient across availability zones in a region, the data managed by Redshift can be.
Restoring from snapshots creates a brand new cluster and you can choose a working availability zone for that cluster to be provisioned into.
Now if you have a major problem in the region impacting multiple or all availability zones in that region, then Redshift offers further resilience still.
You can configure snapshots to be copied to another AWS region. For example you might choose to copy snapshots to AP SE 2, Land of Kangaroos, Australia.
This means your data would be safe even from the failure of the entire original region and a new cluster could be provisioned in this new region quickly in the event of a disaster.
Copied snapshots can be set with an independent retention period and this can help minimize costs.
Now that's pretty much all I wanted to talk about with regards to Redshift backups.
There are questions in the exam about Redshift and high availability and resilience options and so I think it's important to cover that and how you can avoid the single AZ risks by using backups effectively.
And so that's what we've covered in this lesson.
With that being said, thanks for watching. Go ahead and complete the lesson and then when you're ready, you can move on to the next.
