Welcome back, and in this lesson I want to cover the high-level architecture of Amazon Lex.
And Amazon Lex is a product which allows you to create interactive chatbots.
Now for most areas of study, and for solutions architects in the real world,
you just need to have a basic level of understanding.
And that's what this video will provide.
If you need to know anything else in the course that you're studying,
there's going to be follow-up videos to this one.
If not, don't worry, this video will cover everything that you need.
Now let's jump in and get started.
Amazon Lex is a back-end service.
It's not something that you're likely to use from a user perspective.
Instead, you'll use it to add capabilities to your application.
So Lex provides text or voice conversational interfaces.
For the exam, remember Lex for voice or Lex for Alexa.
If you're familiar with the Amazon voice products,
then just know that Lex powers those voice products.
So it provides the conversational capability.
It's what lets the lady in the tube answer your questions.
Now Lex provides two main bits of functionality.
First, automatic speech recognition, or ASR,
which is simple speech-to-text.
Now I say simple, but doing this well is exceptionally difficult.
If any of you have tried using Siri, which is Apple's voice assistant,
notice how often it gets things wrong versus the Alexa product.
That's because it doesn't do ASR as well as Lex.
And for any lawyers listening, this is just my opinion.
Now Lex also provides natural language understanding, or NLU, services.
And this allows Lex to discover your intent and can do intent chaining.
So imagine the act of ordering a pizza.
How would you start off that conversation?
Maybe, can I order a pizza, please?
Or maybe, I want to order a pizza.
What about a large pepperoni pizza, please?
The intent, the thing you want to do, is order pizza.
It's Lex's job to determine that.
But what about your next sentence, make that an extra large, please?
Well Lex needs to understand that the second statement relates to the first.
As a human it sounds easy, because humans are good at this type of natural language processing.
Computers historically have not been so great.
So Lex allows you to build voice and text understanding into your applications.
It's the type of thing that you would use when you don't want to code the functionality yourself.
You integrate Lex and it does the hard work on your behalf.
Now as a service it scales well and integrates with other AWS products such as Amazon Connect.
It's quick to deploy and uses a pay-as-you-go pricing model.
So it only costs when using it.
It's perfect for event-driven or serverless architectures.
Now in terms of the use cases which Lex can help with, you might use it to build chatbots.
Those annoying apps on webpages which ask you if you want help.
It can be used to build voice assistants, you ask for something and the lady in the tube delivers.
Things like QA bots or even info or enterprise productivity bots.
Any interactive bot which accepts text or voice and performs a service.
Now let's review some of the key Lex concepts.
So Lex provides bots and bots are designed to interactively converse in one or more languages.
I've mentioned the term intent previously.
This is an action that a user wants to perform.
So things like ordering a pizza, ordering a milkshake or getting a side of fries.
Now as well as the intent we also have the concept of utterances.
And when creating an intent you're able to provide sample utterances.
And utterances are ways in which an intent might be said.
So in order to order a pizza, a milkshake or some fries you might start off by saying can I order?
Or I want to order or give me a.
These are all different ways, different ways you can utter or provide utterances for an intent.
In addition to configuring utterances you also have to tell Lex how to fulfill the intent.
And often this is using lambda integration.
So if Lex understands that you do want to order a pizza it needs to have some way of initiating that pizza ordering process.
And often this is using lambda.
Again lambda is really great in an event driven architecture.
So it integrates and complements Lex really well.
Additionally you also have the concept of a slot.
And you can think of these as parameters for an intent.
So you might have things like the size of a pizza, small, medium or large.
And what type of crust, normal or cheesy.
And you can configure these to be required parameters that go along with an intent.
So pieces of information that Lex needs to gain from that interaction with a user.
And just to reiterate Lex is the type of product that you're not going to use directly via the console.
It's going to be something that you're going to architect or develop into your applications.
If you want to provide interactive voice assistance via a chat or voice capable bot.
Then you're going to use Amazon Lex.
So remember this for the exam.
With that being said that is everything I wanted to cover in this video.
So go ahead and complete the video.
And when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
