Welcome back and in this video we're going to be doing a really quick overview of Amazon Transcribe.
Now there isn't a lot to understand about this product so let's just jump in and get started straight away.
Amazon Transcribe is an automatic speech recognition or ASR service.
Essentially the input to this product is audio and the output is text.
So it takes audio in the form of speech and then outputs the text version of that speech.
And it offers various features which improve this process.
So things like language customisation, filters for privacy, audience appropriate language as well as speaker identification.
In addition you can configure custom vocabularies as well as creating language models specific to your use case.
Now the product is actually pay per use and your billed per second of transcribed audio.
Now with this product it's going to be much easier to see it working so I'm going to switch across to my console and give you a quick demonstration.
Okay so I'm at the AWS console, I'm logged in as the IAM admin user of my general AWS account and I'm in the Northern Virginia region.
I'm just going to go ahead and click in the search box at the top and type transcribe and then click to move to the transcribe console.
Once I'm here I'm going to click on real time transcription because this is what I'm going to use to demo the product.
And once I'm here I'm going to click on start streaming, say something into my microphone and then click on stop streaming.
I like cats, dogs, chickens and rabbits. Spiders not so much.
At this point we can see that the product has transcribed what I said into my microphone into text and then by clicking here we could download a full transcript of this audio.
Now if we just scroll down we're able to look at some of the more advanced features of the product so you can specify a specific language or you can set it to auto detect the language.
You're able to enable or disable speaker identification, set various content removal settings such as vocabulary filtering or personally identifiable information and other redactions.
If we expand customizations it's here where we can specify custom vocabulary, partial result stabilization or a custom language model.
And we can even expand this to look at application integration.
So this product is capable of being integrated with either your own applications or other AWS products.
And it's on the menu on the left where you can interact with the specific versions of Amazon transcribe such as call analytics or transcribe medical.
Now both of these are beyond the scope of what I want to cover in this video but I did want you to be aware that they exist.
Now at this point that's everything that I wanted to do in the walkthrough so I'm going to move back to the second part of the theory I'll be covering in this video.
Now in terms of the use cases of Amazon transcribe it allows you to do full text indexing of audio so you can convert audio into text and that can be used for full searching of the text version of that audio.
It can also be used to create meeting notes. If you use the product to ingest audio from any meetings that you conduct then you can have full text records of those meetings.
It can be used to generate subtitles, captions or transcripts of any video that your organization uses.
The product comes in a number of specific flavors so transcribe, transcribe medical and then transcribe call analytics.
And in the call analytics version you're able to ingest audio from any audio phone calls and assess the characteristics, perform summarization, look at categories and sentiments of the people talking on that phone call.
The product is also capable of being integrated with your own applications through APIs as well as being able to be integrated with other AWS machine learning services.
So Amazon transcribe can convert from speech into text and then that text can be ingested by other AWS machine learning products to perform further analysis.
Now that's the product at a high level. In this video we're just going to stick to this high level summary.
If the topic that you're studying requires any additional information there will be additional theory and if required practical videos.
But for most of the AWS certifications this is all the information that you'll require.
So go ahead and complete this video and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
