Welcome back and in this video I want to briefly talk about Amazon Textract.
Now much like the other machine learning products which I'll be covering,
in this video I'll only be covering Textract from a high-level
architecture perspective. If more knowledge is required
there will be additional theory or practical videos but don't be alarmed
if this is the only one. That just means that this is the
only level of knowledge that you'll require. Now let's jump in
and get started straight away. So Amazon Textract
is another machine learning product available
within AWS and this product is used
to detect and analyze text contained
within input documents and currently input documents mean JPEGs,
PNG, PDF or TIFF files.
Now these are the inputs and then the outputs
is extracted text, the structure of that text
and then any analysis which can be performed on that text.
So this is a product which can take in one of the supported
document formats and extract any
relevant information and as you'll see this can include things
like generic documents, identity documents
or receipts or invoices and I'll be demoing a couple of these from within
the AWS console later on in this video.
Now for most documents the product
is capable of operating in a synchronous way
so real-time. So if you're inputting a normal size document
then you can expect the results of that analysis almost immediately
after you submit. For large documents these are processed
in an asynchronous way. So this might be a large PDF think hundreds
of pages and for this you might have to submit the job
and then wait for processing to occur. Now the product
is pay-per-usage but it does offer custom pricing
available for large volumes. Now in terms of the use cases
this product at a high level it offers the detection
of text and the relationship between
that text. So you might have for example a receipt
or invoice and it will be able to detect all
the relevant items so prices and products
dates as well as any interaction between those different
elements. So it might know for example that a particular product line has a
specific price
and this has a specific element of tax. It also
generates metadata so for example where that text
occurs and then for particular types of documents
it offers specific types of analysis.
So for generic documents it might be able to identify names
addresses and birth dates but then for receipts
it might be able to identify prices, vendors
line items and dates. For identity documents
it can also do abstraction of certain fields
so you might have drivers licenses which offer a driver license
ID and then passports which offer passport IDs
and the product is capable of assessing both of these
and abstracting that in to a document ID field
so you can analyze many different types of identity documents
and store all of that data in a common database schema
which has abstracted field IDs such as document ID.
Now again this product is capable of either being used from the console UI
or from the APIs and so it can be integrated with any
applications that you either develop or architect.
As well as this it can also be integrated with other
AWS products and services including other
machine learning products. Now it's going to be far easier
for you to be able to understand how this product works if I give you
a brief example. So I'm going to go ahead and switch across to my
AWS console and step through a couple of examples
so let's go ahead and do that. Okay so I'm at the AWS console
I'm logged in as the IAM admin user at the general
AWS account and I have the Northern Virginia region selected
so I'm just going to go ahead and click in the search box at the top and type
Textract and then click to move to the Textract console
and I'm just going to step through a very simple set of examples. So I'm going to go ahead
and click
try Amazon Textract and the console itself
will give you a couple of examples of how it can be used.
So in this particular case it's analyzed a vaccination card
so you can see that on this card the data is in
both a structured and unstructured format. So we have a number of the fields
that are stored in a relatively structured way
so we have last name, first name, date of birth
and a patient number. We also have a table below it which stores the dates of
the various vaccinations
and as you might know if you've taken a number of vaccinations this can
either be typed, handwritten or stamped
and it's often not always within the nice confines
of a particular area of the table. Now this product is
able to extract all the important elements you can see that as I'm
hovering my mouse here
it's able to identify the particular elements of data so I can click
on all these individually and you can see that they're now selected
in this results table on the right. So it's intelligent enough to identify
these
individual elements even if they're slanted
or different sized or in a hard to read format.
So this is a simple vaccination record and we can see
all of the information stored on the right. We do have different sample
documents though if we click on this drop down
we've got a pay stub, this is obviously more complex with a larger amount of
data
and as you can see it's still identified all of this
information so it's extracted all of the key values
from this table. Now what's even cooler is if I click on tables on the right
we can see that for this specific table it's even got the intelligence not only
to extract the data
but also to extract the actual table
structure itself. I can move through the document
and see multiple tables each containing
information and as you can see a lot of these are really complex
in the formatting and yet the product has managed to extract
all of the data with no problems. We've got other types of documents so this for
example
is a loan application and again the Textract product
is capable of extracting all of this including
larger blocks of text and enable us to browse through
and deal with that data both interactively from the console
but we could also do this from the API's from within
our own application. Now the product also has some specific
types of analysis that it can do so if I click on analyze expense
it's able to perform an extraction of data on a sample
receipt so you can see in this example not only is it able to extract
textual data but it can also extract
vendor information from these receipts. We can also perform the same type of
process to analyze
ID documents and in this case we're showing a driver's license
and it's able to extract this number
on this driver's license to be a document number so we can see this
document number here
it's abstracted this driver's license number
to be the document number and if we switch to a passport document
in this particular case it's going to take the passport number
and it will extract this also into a document number
now if you're doing identity document verification for example if you run
an online application and need to perform
know your customer or anti money laundering techniques
so you need to identify and verify ID documentation
then this ability to take specific fields of certain
identity documents and abstract them away and use the same data structure
is really valuable. Now this is everything I wanted to cover
about the Textract product again this is a basic
architectural level introduction if for the particular topic that you're studying
you require additional information then there will be videos
following this one which go into more depth
either theory or practical but if you don't see any additional videos on this
product don't worry
it simply means that for whatever topic you're studying this is all the
information you require
at this point though that is the end of this video so go ahead and complete the
video
and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next
