Welcome back and in this video I'm going to continue my super high-level overview of the AWS Machine Learning Services.
This time looking at Amazon Forecast.
Now this is not weather forecasting, but forecasting based on time series data.
Once again, for nearly all of the AWS certifications, a very high-level overview is more than enough.
If you need any additional knowledge, I'll have follow-up videos, but this one just covers the basics.
So let's jump in and get started.
So Amazon Forecast provides forecasting for time series data.
Now this means things like predicting retail demand, supply chain, staffing levels, energy requirements, server capacity and web traffic.
So any type of data which is time series, where you have a large amount of historical and related data,
well you can use this together with Forecast to provide the ability to forecast future trends and events.
Now the way that you do this is you import historical data and related data.
Now simple historical sales data might include just an item being sold and then a date and time stamp.
And you can use this to trend how popular that item is throughout that time series and use that for simple forecasting.
Related data includes extra contextual information such as any promotions which might have been running throughout a time period
and even things like the weather which can influence the data over a particular time period.
So Forecast uses both of these different sets of data, so historical and related,
and it understands what's normal over a particular time period.
And the output of this will be a forecast and forecast explainability.
Now the forecast is simple enough to understand. It allows you to trend out the future demand for a particular thing
or understand the future requirements for a particular thing.
The explainability though goes into more depth. It allows you to extract the reasons for changes in this demand.
So for example I mentioned the weather as a related data item.
Well in the retail world, weather can have a huge impact on the general demand levels for products.
Generally all products will be influenced at a base level based on the weather.
Some weather patterns may cause people to stay at home versus some may encourage people to go shopping.
Now this obviously has a much greater effect for physical shopping in a retail establishment versus online.
But other elements of weather can also affect online shopping.
For example if it's raining heavily you might see a demand increase for certain types of clothing.
So this is all involved in the ability to forecast future demand based on historical data.
And this is what this product provides. It's a managed service which provides the ability to get access to forecasting for time series data.
Now you can interact with the product from the web console where you can use it to see visualization.
So see past data, future forecasting as well as explore explainability of that forecast.
It can also be interacted with using the CLI, APIs and the Python SDK.
Now once again this is a backend service. It's generally something that you're going to use as part of either a business process or integrating it with your application.
It's relatively niche in its use and so for most AWS exams this high level overview is everything that you'll need.
If you do need any additional knowledge for the course that you're studying there will be additional theory and or practical videos.
But at this point that's everything I wanted to cover in this high level video.
Go ahead and complete the video and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
