Welcome back, and in this video I want to briefly talk about the Amazon Polly product.
Now this is going to be another very brief video.
All you need to know for most AWS exams and to get started in the real world
is the product's high-level architecture.
If there are any other knowledge requirements for the topic that you're studying,
there will be additional videos following this one.
If not, don't worry, this is everything that you'll need to understand.
Now let's just jump in and get started.
So Amazon Polly, at a high level, converts text into lifelike speech.
So in the example below it takes,
I like cats, dogs, chickens and rabbits, spiders not so much.
It takes that text and it generates a lifelike voice or lifelike speech.
So essentially the product takes text in a specific language
and results in speech also in that specific language.
This is really important to understand.
Polly performs no translation.
It can only take text in a given language and output speech also in that language.
Now there are two modes that Polly operates in.
We've got standard TTS or text-to-speech,
and this uses a concatenative architecture.
It essentially takes phonemes, which are the smallest unit of sound in the English language.
For example, for the letter A, the phoneme is A.
So it takes those smallest units of configurations
and uses a concatenative architecture to build patterns of speech.
We've also got neural text-to-speech.
This takes those phonemes.
It generates spectrograms.
It puts these spectrograms through a vocoder and that generates the output audio.
Now this is a much more complex way of generating speech using artificial intelligence.
It's much more computationally heavy,
but what it does is result in much more human or natural sounding speech.
Now the product is capable of outputting in different formats.
So you've got MP3, Ogg Vorbis, or PCM.
And the output format that you'll choose depends on how you're intending to integrate Polly with other products.
So you might choose PCM, for example, if you're wanting to integrate with various AWS products.
It fully depends on what your architecture is.
Now there are a few final points that I want to cover.
First is that Polly is capable of using the speech synthesis markup language.
And this is a way that you can provide additional context within the text
so you can control how Polly generates speech.
So examples of this include that you might want to get Polly to emphasize various parts of sentences
or pronounce things in certain ways.
You might want Polly to whisper certain components of the text.
Or you might want to use an over-exaggerated newscaster speaking style.
These are all things that you can control with speech synthesis markup language, which is SSML.
Now again, Polly is the type of product that's going to be integrated with other things.
For example, you can get a WordPress plugin which allows articles on WordPress blogs to be spoken.
Polly can be integrated with other AWS services where you need speech to be generated based on text.
Or you can integrate Polly with your own applications using the APIs.
Again, this is another product which is going to be more often integrated with other things.
Now this isn't a product where you're going to get much benefit from seeing this in action.
It's a very niche product that you're only ever going to use in certain situations.
For most AWS exams, you just need a high-level architectural overview.
So at this point, that is everything I wanted to cover in this video.
Go ahead and complete the video and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
