Welcome back and in this video I want to very
briefly talk about Amazon Comprehend and this is a natural
language processing service available within AWS.
In short, you input a document and it develops
insights by recognizing the entities, key phrases,
language, sentiments and other common elements
of that document. Now this video is going to cover the basics.
If you need to have a greater level of understanding for the thing that you're
studying there will be follow-up videos but in this video we're going to cover
the important high-level elements so let's jump in and get started.
So I mentioned moments ago that Amazon Comprehend is a natural language
processing service and that you input a document so conceptually think of this
as text and then the output is any entities, phrases, language, personal
identifiable information so any important elements of a document is
surfaced by the Comprehend service and you get access to all of these things
which have been identified. Now the Comprehend service is a machine learning
service and it's based on either pre-trained or custom models so you've
got the option of using either of these. Now the product is capable of doing
real-time analysis for small workloads or asynchronous jobs for larger workloads
and the service can be used from the console or command line for interactive
use or you can use the APIs to build Comprehend into your applications.
Now it's going to be far better for you to gain an understanding of this product if
you can see it operate visually. So I'm going to go ahead and switch across to my
console and just give a brief walkthrough of exactly what the product
can do. Now you can either watch me do this walkthrough or you can follow along
within your own environment but I'm going to go ahead now and switch across
to my AWS console. Okay so I'm currently logged into my AWS console I'm logged in
as the IAM admin user of the general AWS account and as always I've got the
Northern Virginia region selected. Now once I'm here I'm going to click in the
search box at the top and just go ahead and type Comprehend and then click on
Amazon Comprehend. When you first move to the Comprehend service you'll see
something like this you've got the hamburger menu on the top left where you
can access all of the detailed areas of the console but just to illustrate this
I'm going to go ahead and click on launch Amazon Comprehend. Now when you
first launch the product it does give you some sample input text so that you
can see exactly how the product works and we're going to start with this sample
text. So if I just scroll down slightly under input text you'll be able to see
the analysis type is built-in and this allows you to have real-time insights
based on the AWS built-in models. So this is one of the machine learning models
which I discussed in the theory part of this lesson. We've also got custom and
this allows you to create custom models which fit your data. In this case though
we're going to use the built-in analysis type and if I just scroll down this is
sample input text. It essentially describes an individual, a company, it
includes some credit card information as well as other personally identifiable
information. So what I'm going to do is go ahead and click on analyze to analyze
this sample input text. So examples of what we get are entities. So it's
searched the input text and it's identified anything which it classifies
as an entity and examples of this are persons so the person entity and it
identifies a person here which is the recipient of this email as well as the
sender. So John is identified as a person and it has a 0.99 plus confidence. Now
this is expressed from a value from 0 which is 0% through to 1 which is 100%
and the confidence level shows how confident Comprehend is of its
identification. In this case it's over 99% sure that John is a person. Next we
have any company financial services and this has been identified as an
organization again with a high level of confidence. We have a credit card
information and this has been identified as an entity of type other. We have
location so an address and then other again in the form of an email address
again with 99% plus confidence. Now what we can also do is click on key phrases
and have it filter based on all the key phrases within this text. We can click on
language and the product is capable of identifying any languages used in the
text in this case English with again a 99% confidence. We can click on PII and
see any personally identifiable information so we have names we have
credit card numbers date and times bank account numbers bank routing address
phone numbers and emails and we can even click on sentiment to identify the
overall level of sentiment in this text and for this it's identified the
majority as being neutral. Now what I could do is replace this text so I'm
going to do that so I'm going to click in the box and delete it and I'm going
to replace it with this so my name is Adrian and I'm 1337 years old my
favorite animals are cats and I own 500 of them and my least favorite are spiders
I'm going to go ahead and analyze this piece of text. This time what I want to
focus on is the sentiment analysis so it still identifies all of the keywords the
quantities in the form of my age and the number of cats that I own it still
identifies the language used which is English and if I click on sentiment
we'll see that there is some neutral positive and negative but overall it's
of mixed sentiment and that's because I specified that my favorite something is
cats and my least favorite are spiders so there's a mixed level of sentiment in
this text. If I was to go ahead and delete the spiders part so just have my
name my age my favorite animals and how many of them I own and then go ahead and
analyze this and then go to sentiment now we'll see that it's changed we have a
mixture of neutral sentiment and positive sentiment so you can see how
sentiment key phrases and any personally identifiable information can be surfaced
from an input document and that's what the comprehend service does now again
this can be used from the console the CLI and the API so while I'm
demonstrating a very simple interaction with this product you can use the API's
and integrate it with your applications or other parts of the system so this is
an important product to understand both from a solutions architect developer and
operations perspective. Now at this point that is everything I wanted to cover in
this video I just wanted to give you a really high-level overview of how the
comprehend product works at this point though go ahead and complete the video
and when you're ready I'll look forward to you joining me in the next
