Welcome back and in this video I want to talk about another really cool AWS product called Amazon Recognition with a K.
Now let's jump in and get started because I'm actually super excited to step through this product and how it works.
Recognition is a deep learning based image and video analysis product.
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning so this is to say that recognition can look at images or videos
and intelligently do or identify things based on those images or videos.
Specifically, it can identify objects in images and videos such as cats, dogs, chickens or even hot dogs.
It can identify specific people, text, for example license plates, activities, what people are doing in images and videos.
It can help with content moderation, so identifying if something is safe or not.
It can detect faces, it can analyze faces for emotion and other visual indications.
It can compare faces, checking images and videos for identified individuals.
It can do pathing, so identify movements of people in videos and an example of this might be post-game analysis on sports games and much, much more.
It's actually one of the coolest machine intelligence services that AWS has and that's saying a lot.
The product is also pay-as-you-use, per image pricing or per minute of video.
And it integrates with applications via APIs and it's event driven, so it can be invoked say when an image is uploaded to an S3 bucket.
But one of its coolest features is that it can analyze live video by integrating with Kinesis video streams.
So this might include doing facial recognition on security camera footage for security type situations.
Distinguishing between the owner of a property and somebody who's attempting to commit a crime.
All in all it's a super flexible product.
Now generally for all of the AWS exams you only need to have a basic understanding of the architecture.
There are some AWS exams, for example machine learning, where you might need additional understanding.
And if you're studying a course where that additional understanding is required there will be follow up videos.
In general though it's only a high level architecture understanding.
And one example architectural flow might look something like this.
So an image containing whiskers and woofy is uploaded to S3.
Now we've configured S3 events and so this invokes a Lambda function.
The Lambda function calls recognition to analyze the image.
It returns the results and then the Lambda function stores the metadata together with a link to the image into DynamoDB for further business processes.
To give some context as to the other things that recognition can do, let's just take an entirely random selection of images from the internet.
So recognition can identify celebrities such as Iron Man.
It can also identify mic chambers, though I think as a machine learning service it might be slightly biased.
It can identify text in images or videos such as license plates on cars or other internet memes.
It can even identify objects, animals or people in those same memes.
For faces specifically it can identify emotions or other attributes.
So for example identifying this random doctor is a male who currently has his eyes open and is looking very, very serious rather than being happy in any way.
So that's recognition.
If you have questions in the exam which need general analysis performing on images or videos for content, emotion, text, activities, anything I've mentioned in this lesson,
then you should default to picking recognition. It's probably going to be the correct answer.
Now with that being said that is everything I wanted to cover in this video.
Go ahead and complete this video and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next.
