Welcome back, and in this video I want to cover the high-level architecture of the Amazon Translate product.
This is another machine learning product available within AWS, and if you need any other knowledge over and above architecture,
there will be additional videos following this one.
If you only see this video, don't worry, it just means that this is the only knowledge that you need.
Now let's just jump in and get started straight away.
Amazon Translate, as the name suggests, is a text translation service which is based on machine learning.
It translates text from a native language to other languages one word at a time.
Now the translation process is actually two parts.
We first have the encoder, and the encoder reads the source text and then outputs a semantic representation,
which you can think of as the meaning of that source text.
Remember that the way that you convey certain points between languages differs.
It's not always about direct translation of the same words between two different languages.
So the encoder takes the native source text and it outputs a semantic representation or meaning,
and then the decoder reads in that meaning and then writes to the target language.
Now there's something called an attention mechanism, and Amazon Translate uses this to understand context.
It helps decide which words in source text are the most relevant for generating the target output.
And this ensures that the whole process correctly translates any ambiguous words or phrases.
Now the product is capable of auto detecting the source text language,
so you can explicitly state what language the source text is in or you can allow that to be auto detected by the product.
Now in terms of some of the use cases for Amazon Translate, well it can offer a multi-lingual user experience.
So all the documents that exist within businesses are generally going to be stored in the main language of that business.
But this allows you to offer those same documents such as meeting notes, posts, communications and articles
in all of the languages that staff within your business speak.
And this can make it much easier for organizations which have offices in different countries to operate more efficiently.
This also means that you can offer things like emails, in-game chat or customer live chat
in the native language of the person that you're communicating with.
And this can increase the operational efficiency of your business processes.
It also allows you to translate incoming data such as social media, news and communications
from the language that they're written in into the native language of the staff that are interpreting those incoming communications.
Now more commonly Amazon Translate can also offer language independence for other AWS services.
So you might have other services such as Comprehend, Transcribe and Poly which operate on information.
And Translate offers the ability for these services to operate in a language independent way.
It can also be used to analyze data which is stored in S3, RDS, DynamoDB and other AWS data stores.
Now generally with this product you're going to find that it's used more commonly as an integration product.
So rather than use it directly it's more common to see it integrated with other AWS services,
other applications including ones that you develop and other platforms.
So in the exam if you see any type of scenario which requires text to text translation then think Translate.
If you see any scenario which might need text to text translation as part of a process then Translate can form part of that process.
So you might want to translate one language into another and then speak that language
or you might want to take audio which is in one language output text and then translate that to a different textual language.
Keep in mind that Translate is often used as a component of a business process.
So really keep that one in mind it's not always used in isolation.
Now with that being said that is everything I wanted to cover in this video.
So go ahead and complete the video and when you're ready I look forward to you joining me in the next.
