Welcome back, and in this video I'm going to quickly discuss the functionality provided by Amazon Kendra.
Now this is something which you only need to have the highest level exposure to for most of the AWS exams.
If you need to know more than this basic level, there will be other videos diving deeper into Kendra functionality,
but this video will stick to the basics, so if it's the only video on Kendra in the course that you're taking,
that's fine, this is everything that you need to know.
So let's jump in and get started.
Now Kendra is an intelligent search service.
So its primary aim is that it's designed to mimic interacting with a human expert.
So the idea is that you can use Kendra to search a source of data,
and you feel as though you're interacting with a human expert on that data subject.
So it supports a wide range of question types.
We start with simple factoid-based questions, such as who, what and where.
So you can ask questions like who wrote this book, what the best type of animal is, of course it's cat,
and where is this particular place, and Kendra will attempt to surface the answer to that information,
and do it in such a way that it mimics the type of interaction and the quality of response that you get with a human.
Now another type of question is a descriptive question,
and this might come in the form of how do I get my cat to stop being a jerk,
and so Kendra has to understand all of the question text as well as the intent of the question,
so what it is you're trying to surface.
And then lastly we have keyword-type questions.
Now these are much more difficult than they seem on first glance.
Imagine that you ask a question, what time is the keynote address?
Well in this particular case, address doesn't always have the same meaning.
You can mean a postal address, or you can mean, in this context, a speech.
So a keynote address is a speech, a keynote speech of a conference,
and so Kendra has to help to determine the intent of the question being asked,
and that's why it's a very difficult problem to solve,
and why Kendra adds significant value by delivering this as a service.
Now Kendra is another backend-style service.
You're going to use this product to provide functionality to any applications or systems that you design or implement.
So generally you will provide search capability within an application and use Kendra as a backend.
Now let's go through the key concepts of Kendra.
Kendra, we start with an index, which is a searchable block of data organized in an efficient way.
So the index is the thing that Kendra searches when dealing with user queries.
We have a data source, and this is the original location of where your data lives.
So Kendra connects and indexes from this location.
Now examples of this might be an S3 bucket, Confluence, Google Workspaces, RDS OneDrive, Kendra WebCrawler, WorkDocs, FSX, and many other data sources.
Now there are too many to list on this screen, but I will attach a link to this video, which gives an exhaustive list.
Now the idea is that you configure Kendra to synchronize a data source with an index based on a schedule,
and this keeps the index current with all of the data that's on the original data source.
Now in terms of the data that's being indexed, you have documents, and these are either going to be structured or unstructured.
So structured might include things like frequently asked questions, and unstructured data might be things like HTML files, PDFs, and text documents.
But again, there are many more, and there isn't space to have them on screen at the same time,
so I'll include a link attached to this video, which gives a full overview of all of the different types of documents that Kendra can index.
Now Kendra as a product integrates with lots of different AWS services, such as IAM for security,
and the IAM Identity Center, previously known as AWS SSO, for various single sign-on services.
And again, just to reiterate, Kendra is a back-end product. It's something that provides functionality to something else.
And so you're going to be interacting with Kendra using APIs which are surfaced through your applications.
It's not something that you'll generally interact with as an end user through the AWS console beyond the initial setup process.
Now that's everything that you need to understand for most AWS exams, and to get started with it in the real world as a Solutions Architect.
So at this point, go ahead and complete the video, and when you're ready, I'll look forward to you joining me in the next.
