Welcome back, and in this video I want to cover Amazon SageMaker from a high level perspective.
Now this is a product which you need to understand at only a foundational level for most AWS exams, but in depth for some others.
If any additional knowledge is required for the course that you're studying, there will be follow up deep dive videos, but if you only see this one, this is all that you'll require.
Now I have to apologize in advance, I don't like creating lessons which I don't think add much real world value.
SageMaker is a special kind of product where you're only going to be able to use it effectively if you have some practical experience.
But because you don't need to understand how to use it in depth for most of the AWS exams, I don't really want to waste your time going into significant depth.
It's a fairly niche product to use in the real world.
So this lesson is really just going to present some high level features, and you're not going to get as much value doing it this way, but it's just one of those things that we have to do in this way to avoid wasting time.
So you probably won't really like this lesson, but just stick with it because it will benefit you for the exam.
Now let's jump in and get started straight away.
So SageMaker is actually a collection of other products and features all packaged together by AWS, and it's an implementation of a fully managed machine learning service.
So it essentially helps you with the process of developing and using machine learning models.
So this includes data fetching, cleaning, preparing, and then training and evaluating models, and then deploying those models, and then monitoring those models and collecting data.
So it's used for this entire machine learning lifecycle, and it's AWS's way of implementing one product or one container of products which can help you for this entire lifecycle.
Now there are a few key things that you need to be aware of about SageMaker.
The first is SageMaker Studio, and this is essentially an IDE or integrated development environment for the entire machine learning lifecycle.
So this allows you to build, train, debug, and monitor machine learning models.
So think about this as a development environment for the machine learning lifecycle.
If you see this mentioned on the exam, you understand at a high level what it is.
Now within SageMaker, you have the concept of a SageMaker domain, and I want you to think about this as isolation or groupings for a particular project.
So you're provided with an EFS volume, separate users, you can use applications, policies, and different VPC configurations.
So just think of this as almost a container for a particular project.
And when you start using SageMaker, you'll have to create a SageMaker domain in order to interact with the product.
Next we've got containers, and these are essentially Docker containers which are deployed to specific machine learning EC2 instances.
So these are specific types and sizes of EC2 instances which start with ML, and they're designed specifically for machine learning workloads.
Now these Docker containers are machine learning environments which come with specific versions of the operating system, libraries, and tooling for the specific task that you're wanting to accomplish.
And there are many different pre-built containers that you can utilize with SageMaker.
Now SageMaker is also capable of hosting machine learning models, so you can deploy machine learning models as endpoints that your applications can then utilize.
And there are various different hosting architectures which are either based on serverless or consistently running compute.
Now again, this is beyond the scope of this high-level architecture video, but I did just want you to be aware that SageMaker can host your machine learning models.
This is something that you need to be aware of for the exam.
And then finally, be aware that SageMaker itself has no cost, but the resources that it creates do have a cost.
And it's fairly complex pricing because of the range of services which can be created by SageMaker.
And another important concern about SageMaker is because of the complexity of those resources and because of the compute requirements of machine learning in general,
the resources which are deployed can be relatively large and carry significant cost.
And to help you with this, I'm going to include a link attached to this video which details some of the important cost elements for this product.
Now at this point, that's everything I'm going to cover in this video.
I need to apologize again because I know it's at a very abstract and high level.
But the only thing that you need to be aware of for most of the AWS exams is how it works structurally at a high level.
There's only one exam where you need additional levels of understanding, and that's the machine learning specialty exam.
So if you're studying this as part of the machine learning course, you're going to find many other videos which are deep diving into how SageMaker works,
including advanced demos or mini projects which are going to give you practical experience.
But if you only see this one video, it means you're studying a course which only needs this really high level understanding.
And with that being said, that's everything I wanted to cover in this video.
So go ahead and complete the video.
And when you're ready, I look forward to you joining me in the next.
