
41 GCP Security#####

Transcript


So morning. Hi everyone. So this will be our day one for GCP PCA
under the head of cloud security master program. GCP security master program. So I'm Rohit. I
will be your instructor for today and let's start. So first of all let's
have a quick overview about our GCP security masters program like uh you are
following the recordings you may be aware that we have divided this course into three courses certification track.
So first is GCP associate cloud engineer where we focused on basis of to intermediate GCP service skills and we
have covered almost all services which are available in GCP from associate cloud engineer perspective. Then we
started GCP professional cloud security engineer where we deep dive into GCP security services. This is already
complete completed. So both ass and PCSC are now completed and recordings will be
there for you to refer. Today we are going to start the last section of this program which is professional cloud
architect in which we master GP GCP service mostly whatever we are
discussing in associate cloud architect we have covered already in cloud security engineer but here our approach
should be like from architect approach how an architect design the solutions over
cloud focusing on security. So like if you see about cloud architect syllabus
or exam guide it's very vast because definitely it's a cloud architect so you
should know everything but here as we are under the head of security master program so what I will do is whenever
there will be security related architecture security related design we'll focus more there and for you I
will just recommend you that go through the official documentation of Google if
anything is left because if you are planning to do ECAS certification then definitely you need some more efforts
from your end on nonsecurity site I will say just because for security
rest assured that we'll cover everything let's see what will be the table of
content for today so we'll see first GCP professional cloud architect exam content what is the content of
examination then overview of case studies with respect to PCA exam in professional cloud architect exam there
will be case studies most of the questions will be based on case studies here. So we'll see what are those case
studies and if if suppose you are not prepared about these case studies and during examinations you see it for the
first time and definitely it will be time consuming and as the time is limited there can create a problem right
so to study and understand the case studies and then answer it because every questions will be linked to case studies
most of them then we'll see designing and planning a cloud solution architecture which is the first section
of this examination and we start there with Google cloud well architectured framework. So we'll see how Google
recommend us to design our solutions in cloud and then reference architectures.
We'll see multiple reference architectures like how what Google suggest depending upon the business
needs how we should architect the solution. So we'll see all the references which are available on Google
landing zone design in Google cloud which is like very critical thing I will
say because most of the organization you will see that when they plan their cloud
journey they start with creating a landing zone. So they will first design a landing zone. Landing zone you can
consider a contained area where they will add all the necessary services
which they want for a particular business units or a subsidiaries. So we'll see like more in more details and
then we'll see about maxic. So I added maxic here because it's related to security and whenever
you add interconnect like hybrid connections from your onremise toward GCP and vice versa or any cloud provider
let's say AWS or Azure Max will be very helpful there because you transfer your data your organization
data toward cloud. So you should not you should think of some security because your data in transit should be secured.
So that's why it's very important thing and that's why we added here and we see like in what reference in what design
we need max we need other protocols as well but mostly we have discussed like cloudVPN we have discussed so that's why
maxic we have not discussed so I have added it here so let's start so what to
expect in exam a Google cloud certified professional cloud architect enable
organization to leverage Google cloud technologies run understanding of cloud architecture and Google technologies.
This individual design so architect designs develop and manage robust, secure, scalable, highly available and
dynamic solutions to drive business objective. So you can see how vast is the role of a cloud architect. Right? So
like as a security professional our more focus should be on how to secure our
design, how to architect a secure solution toward cloud because if
you focus on all these areas and yeah definitely we should have the knowledge of all all areas so that we fit
ourselves in the architect discussions but yeah our focus should be always on security. The cloud architect should be
proficient in all aspect of enterprise cloud strategy solutions design and architectural best practice. So as I
said like all aspect you should be proficient in the cloud architect should
also be experienced in software development methodologies how software development SDLC cycles and
approach approaches including multi-type distributed applications with which span
multi cloud or hybrid environment. So definitely like it it won't be a
standalone every time, right? So that's why it's saying like EOD architect
should be able to like uh approach including multi-t
distributions like most of the times you will see your Google cloud interfaces will be linked to other cloud multiloud
like Azure and AWS every time you will see there will be a hybrid setup like most 99% of time your
existing onremise connections will go to and from cloud so architect It's not
about like architect is designing only solution onto the cloud. We should be aware of all these external interfaces
as well. Like keeping all those in mind, you should design a perfect solution. Now let's go to case studies. During the
exam for cloud architect certification, some of the questions may refer you to a case study that describes a fixious
business and solution concept. So it's a fixious business like it will be as the
name suggests case study. So there will be some business requirements and they will give you all the
requirements like what they need and according to that you have to think in your mind as a architect you have to
think of a design or a solution or and architect the things accordingly. These case studies are intended to provide
additional context to help you choose your answers and you have to choose your answer based on the case studies only
because for each and every problem there will be a unique solution. Right? So that's why these case studies are
crucial. Review the case studies that may be used in the exam. So maybe these
are the four case studies. It's not guaranteed like the same case study you will get the exam. Yeah. But
similar to this. So you will get an idea and you can quickly understand that if you know what what are the structure of
this case studies in which area you need to focus more as an architect. So it will help you definitely to save your
time during the examination. So first of all before going to case studies let's
refer below exam guide for detail syllabus will give us an overview.
Let me open it otherwise my board is not working properly.
Yeah. So I prepare I have added it from Google
website only. So there will be six sections. I added it in slide as well. So it according to
world exam is divided into below six sections. Section one deals with designing and planning a cloud solution
architect. So here most of the time we'll be working on thinking of a design and how to plan a cloud solution
architect. So there is one thing like most of the times in associate cloud engineering professional we directly jump into the
lab. So we discussed there more on how how we can configure services how thing
works but here we'll have to think of as an approach like how to design thing so
there will be theory also in this course most of the times we will deal with theory sometimes it will be boring but I
will try to make it like as as as soon I can cover like quickly I can cover the
theory part so that we can jump into the lab but definitely as the course demand we should have a complete understanding
understanding about this architecture. So definitely we'll have to go through theory. So that's why
I just uh I just wanted to make sure that yeah you can expect some theory here but yeah definitely labs will be
there. Then section two will be managing and provisioning a solution infrastructure. So here we'll see how to manage and
provision a solution infrastructure. So how what provisioning tools we'll use how what tools we'll use to manage the
things the design of security and compliance which will be our most target area because here we'll be dealing most
of the times with security and compliance we'll understand here compliance in details as well because in PCSC compliance we have like we have not
touched compliance in deep there but here we understand what sort of industry compliance are available we'll take
example of healthcare e-commerce like what compliance we are limited to so that if you go for in interview also
then that will definitely help you and security definitely we'll see what all security tools are we go very deep into
this section and then analyzing and optimizing technical and business process how how you we can use analyzing
tools sometimes AI or ML and optimize our business process by analyzing our
past data then managing implementation which is 11% of the exam ensuring solutions and operation reliability then
so cloud reliability thing which is also part of this course. So you can see how depth is the content of this course. So
accordingly we'll try to cover most of the parts focusing on security.
So if I go to so that's all in if you want a detailed breakup. So that's why I
have added this uh exam guide where you see each and everything. So suppose like
if we covered we will we'll covered most of the things but as I said we are focusing more on security. So we'll see
sometimes like uh suppose design design design decision trade-off.
So we I will discuss most of the times about design decision trade-offs when we are designing a security solution. But
cloud is not just about security right there are other things also. So please I will request you go through that other
things if you want to if you're appearing for an certification examination because in certification
examination there will be other technology related questions as well which is which will be different than
security. So you'll have to work for that as well and related to security rest assured we'll cover all.
So let's now what we'll do is we'll go to our next slide.
here. So after this the next slide is this which says overview of case studies. So just just I wanted to give
you an idea about case studies like what is expected from us from the case studies. So we'll just cover one of the
case studies. We won't go deep into that because we are just starting and will confuse us. So whatever the knowledge we
have gained in assert cloud engineer and professional cloud secret engineer from that we'll try to answer these case
studies questions or whatever the business needs we we will design a solution. So first of all I will open
this. So this I took from Google. So let me
show you where you will get all these datas.
One second. So now just type in Google Google Cloud
PCA exam guide. So go to official Google documentation
because they may update it. So we should have always the latest information. So
professional cloud architect here you can see case studies during the exam of the cloud architect certification some
of the questions may refer you to a case study that describe a fixes business and solution concept these cases are
involved to provide additional context to help you choose your answers review the case studies that may be used in the
exam that may be used in the exam. Okay, it's not like it will be used but yes it
may be used or something similar to that for sure will be used. So let's open one
of those. Yeah. So let's go through this EHR
healthcare case study. So it's a company fixious company which is related to health care.
Ehr healthcare is a leading provider of electronic health record software to the medical industry. Okay. So it clearly
says it's dealing with the healthcare business. Ehr healthcare provide their software as
a service. Okay. SAS model to multinational medical offices, hospital
and insurance provider. So it's hosting their software and providing it as a
service to multinational medical
offices, hospitals and insurance providers. So just keep in mind these things because everything is giving us a
hint. So here we recorded two things that it's a health care. So quickly in
our mind as a security engineer all the compliance related to healthcare should be applicable to it and software as a
service. So divert your all thinking toward SAS model not about is PS mean
infrastructure service platform service remove that because in this you case
study it's a SAS now solution concept solution concept is due to rapid change
in the healthcare and indust insurance insurance industry BHR healthcare business has been growing exponentially
year and over so their business is growing year so it's scaling Okay, business is scaling up. They need to be
able to scale their environment, adapt their disaster recovery plan. Okay, so disaster recovery plan. So think of
multi-reion or different region, not a single region or zone related deployment won't work
here. And roll out new continuous deployment capabilities, CI/CDs. So they don't want to stick to the traditional
method, continuous deployment capabilities to update their software at a fast pace. Okay, Google cloud has been
chosen to replace their current collocation facilities. Now they are
choosing Google cloud for this. So yeah, because it's related to Google. So definitely now existing technical
environment. So at least from solution concept we understood that okay
uh their need whatever they need to build their business is something can be
achieved using Google cloud that is at least we are aware of now. Now existing techn let's see what is their existing
technical environment. This is technical things are useful to us as a technical architect. EHR software is currently
hosted in multiple collocation facilities. Okay. So software is currently hosted in multiple locations
they have hosted it. So it's not a a regional or zonal it's a multi-reional environment.
The lease on one of the data center is about to expire. Okay. So one of the data center is expiring. Customerf
facing applications are web based. It's purely web- based. uh things whatever they are hosting and may have and many
have recently been containerized to run on a group of Kubernetes cluster. So
already they are using Kubernetes cluster on premises. Data is stored in a mixture of relational and NoSQL
database. So they use all type of database mostly relational as well as NoSQL. MySQL, MSSQL servers, radius used
for caching and MongoDB. So or NoSQL. So they are using this type
of database. Ehr is hosting several legacy file and API based integration
with the insurance provider on premise. Now they have legacy file and API based integration.
So it's not like they are contained within their own organization. They are having this interfaces API and legacy
file based interfaces integration with insurance provider onremise. Okay. These
systems are scheduled to be replaced over the next several years. There is no plan to upgrade or move these systems at
the current time. Okay. But at the moment they just want these systems to
be what wherever they are placed they don't want to migrate it. So they don't want this on cloud. Okay. Users are
managed via Microsoft active directory. They are using Microsoft directory for using users identity not Google
workspace. Monitoring is currently being done via various open-source tool. So they are using all open source tool to
do monitoring. Alerts are sent via email and are often ignored. So this is a challenge right. So they are not using
any managed monitoring services. Alerts on user credentials or anything are
getting ignored. So this is a challenge they are facing. Business requirement. Now there will be two things. One will
be business what business needs and what are the technical requirements. These are the areas where we have to focus more. Suppose you get a case studies
during the examination. So always spend some time reading business requirement
and technical requirement because most of the answers you will have to frame by understanding this only. So business
requirement onboard new insurance provider as quickly as possible. So they can onboard new insurance provider as
quickly as possible. There should not be much delay in onboarding a new customer
or interface. Provide a minimum 99.9% availability for all customerf facing
system. So think of this like almost available every time available solution
you have to build provide centralized visibility and proactive action on system performance and usage. Okay. So
observability whatever logging monitoring related to this increase ability to provide insight into
healthcare trends analysis data analysis bigquery you can think of that reduce
latency to all customers. It means host your services where your customers
are or use CDN content delivery network which will be a
low latency network instead of using other external connectivity.
Maintain regulatory compliance. So as I initially said it's a healthcare business. So you have to maintain
regulatory control because patients related records will be there. decrease infrastructure administration cost and
you will have to think about cost also like it's not about just uh using all premium services and increasing cost
because business will never agree to that right make predictions and generate report on industry strengths based on
provider data you whatever data you are getting from your providers like third
party providers or anyone you should analyze those data so that you are aware
of how is the external market or You should be able to analyze the provider data to increase your own business or
modify your business or in what I can say is
glorify your business or you can just anything you you can do to improve your
business strategies. Now these are all the business requirements we understand now like uh this what are the business
needs not technical requirement quickly
maintain legacy interfaces to insurance providers with connectivity to both onremise systems and cloud providers. So
you have to maintain it because there is no plan to upgrade these to cloud as in
as we have seen in existing technical environment. So we have to design a solution in which legacy interfaces to
insurance provider with connectivity to both on-premise system and cloud provider should be maintained. Provide a
consistent way to manage customerf facing application that are container based. What you can think of
a consistent way to manage the applications which are container based in cloud. So the best way will be
kubernetes because kubernetes is the most leading orchestration container orchestration platform. So the most
efficient way in which you can deal with container is the Kubernetes provide a secure high performance connection
between onremise system and Google cloud. Now a secure and high performance connection what you can think of is a
dedicated interconnect. So in which you take a lease line directly from your data center but you have to keep in mind
that your collocation facility should be there where Google has their
hostings or their edge devices are there. If not then you have to think of partner interconnect.
Now provide a consistent logging, log retention, monitoring and alerting capabilities. We use all standard
managed logging monitoring tools available within Google cloud observability page. We can follow that.
Maintain and manage multiple container based environment Kubernetes. Dynamic scale and provision new environment.
Yeah, it can be done using Kubernetes only. Create interfaces to ingest and process data from new providers. So we
how to take data we can use a pubshop and we can take a data we don't know
what sort of data will come so we should apply some ETL pipeline extract transform and load so this type of ETL
data flow technology where we take a data and we don't know what what type of data will come we collect all type of uh
what we can say relational nonL file image whatever comes comes from our provider and with the we then organize
that data for us to process that we see. So then finally executive
statement our on-remise strategy has worked for last years but has required a major investment. So their executive
statement is that whatever strategy they are following has been worked for many years but has required a major
investment of time and money. So time and money both have been invested. So you you can think of that in training
our team on distinct different system managing similar but separate environment and responding to outages.
Many of these outages has been a result of misconfigured system. Okay. So inadequate capacity to manage spikes in
traffic. If something they need to scale up and onremise it's difficult and
inconsistence monitoring practices as they are mostly using open source. We want to use Google Cloud to leverage a
scalable resilient platform that can span multiple environments seamlessly and provide a consistent and stable user
experience that positions us for future growth. So executive statement. So now
we have spent some time going through the case studies and we know now like we
can at least sync to whatever the business requirement for this EHR healthcare. Now let me open
doc drawings you see ehr design flow diagram. So
basis on that what I did is I prepared on flow diagram. So from you is also
expected this you should be able to think of this
proper flow. So let's say
first of all I will go through this workflow. Now end user as we have seen in that uh technical requirement
let's go one by one maintain legacy interface to insurance provider with connectivity to both onremise systems
and cloud providers. So this onremise suppose in onremise they are having some
legacy API. So we they they already said that they have no plan to migrate this
interfaces and legacy APIs from on-remise to cloud. So let's keep that in their on-remise environment only. So
that's why I have kept it here. And now provide a consistent way to manage
customerf facing application that are container based. Now customerf facing so end userf facing application definitely
user will come from anywhere. It's a multi-reion deployment they have. So we have used a cloud load balancing
definitely global cloud external load balancer with cloud armor security so that
this time the end user connectivity to their web application is fully secure. So if any malicious user attempt to
access their application definitely cloud armor will block it. Now here I have chos GKE. So I can I I may have
chos GKE as well. Why Anthos GKE? Because it's a hybrid setup. They have
already mentioned that they are using GKE onromise and we have seen in PCSC if
you already have a GK multi- environment GK you are you try to manage or multicloud or hybrid GK you want to
manage then you have to go by Anthos fleet in which a GKE cluster on
different platform can be managed as a single in so that's why I have chos GKE
here now provide a consistent way to manage customerf facing application that are container based So for that I have
choosed the cloud load balancing
cloud load balancing and enthos GK. So each and everything you can observe
at least observe it and think of like why I have chosen these services and I'm giving you the expression explanations
as well. Now provide a secure high performance connection between onremise systems and Google cloud secure and high
high performance. So definitely I can think of cloud interconnect where what I
can do is I can do a dedicated interconnect and I can transfer all my
data from onremise to cloud and vice versa through that interconnect so that it won't be any shared path and I will
use harpn over that so that everything is encrypted between my on-remise and
cloud. So that is also achieved. Now provide consistent logging log
retention monitoring as alerting capabilities. For that what I did is I have used cloud monitoring and alerts,
cloud logging and cloud trace. So I make sure whatever happens within this EHR
healthcare uh environment will be monitored everything will be traced so that when
it comes to accountability we don't lag anywhere. Now maintain and
manage multiple container based environment for that we already did this and those which will help with that
dynamically scale and provision new environment GK is well enough capable of doing that create interfaces to ingest
and process data from new provider for that what I did is I added this any new
provider if they send some data we'll use a popsup via popsup what we'll do is
we'll receive the data or any input from them and then we don't know what sort of
data that will come. So we'll create a data flow pipeline and in the data flow pipeline
what we do is we define like what because you are dealing with your insurance providers maybe some sensitive
data will be there and what I am intended to do with this data like I am
analyzing this data to improve my business right so I I will be the data processor here so if you go to the
regularity things then you should not process any sensitive or PII my data for
that what I did is I applied a data loss prevention API so that I my company won't be facing any compliance challenge
in future so what I will do is I will take a data from any new provider I will
create a popshop pipeline and v that whenever a data is loaded into a storage or something there will
be some more component here it's just a highle overview so whenever a data is
stored it will trigger a data flow ETL And if you have not aware of this, you
can go through my PCSC where I have discussed in detail like how using data
flow ETL you can uh transform your data according to your need. So what suppose
uh there is a excel and in that excel there is one column. Now let me open excel I will give an example.
So what I'm trying to achieve here YouTube.
So let me open this. So suppose this is my provider. Okay, insurance provider
for example. And this is just an example. So they are
sending some data to us and any any form of data. So what I will do is I will
just uh storage
suppose this is the storage
and cloud popup. So we have seen that whenever something is added into a cloud storage
we can trigger a cloud popup and there we can define some functions.
Now suppose here we define a plain function saying whenever insurance provider sends some data store it in for
time being store into the storage and after that op will initiate a function which says data flow.
Now this is a data flow. Data flow is used to extract the data according to
your need. Now suppose client has given this uh data in the form of like uh
for example this is just a to example don't consider it as a something legitimate from insurance provider. So
now they have provided name insurance data last time what what it is
name of the patient or any not patient only just the subscriber and age
insurance money from a single what country
which country the subscriber was right so this type of data is there and
suppose ailment current ailment or current illness something. So this is
something you cannot process right because there there may be depending upon the country's regulation but most
of the times you will see that suppose a XYZ person is there and he's having some
ABC type of illness. So as a processor why you should process someone's
personal information right. So I don't want this and suppose this time this uh insurance provider sent a excel file.
Okay, it will be totally different in real world scenarios but just for our
information it suppose sent an excel file we stored it in our uh storage for
first and then a popup uh we created and that from that pubshop messaging Q we
have added it into the data flow ETL. So if you study about data for it's already
in PCC course but let me data
flow ETL. So what it says extract transform and load data flow is
a Google cloud service that provide unified stream and batch data processing at scale. So it's a service which help
with uniform unified stream and batch data processing. Use data flow to create data pipeline that read from one or more
source. Transform the data and write the data to a destination. So this is our requirement here, right? Read from one
or more source. Here our source is our insurance insurance provider. Now we are we want to transform the data. Transform
in the sense what we want to do is suppose this data was in the form of uh
notepad or anything. So what I added asked data flow is to create a excel
with this columns name age insurance money organize the data we first asked extract first extract from insurance
provider then transform transform means transform the data just I wanted data
flow to transform it to a excel for example and then from the column wise
what I will ask my DLP engine
data loss prevention. What I will ask him is
remove remove or uh studentize anything hash
suppose hash the column
column width illness. So what it will do is it it will encrypt
this or hash this something like this as something
something like this. Okay. So now when it comes to
why this formulas because I used all these things okay suppose something like this. So age is there insurance money is
20,000 something country India. Now what I can do is I can utilize this trend.
Okay, my insurance provider has uh from the age of below 25 they have collected
all this insurance money something like that from this country. So this can be helpful for me to understand the what is
the trend of the market going on right but using that trend to improve my business
I should not compromise with someone personal data so that's why these are very crucial for a security architect to
design otherwise you will get a heavy penalty penalty if somebody auditing
organization notice this thing so this organization definitely should have to follow so that's why we need to keep
this thing in So what will happen is
the purpose of adding
all this. I just explained like we take a data from data source. We create a pipeline data flow ETL pipeline with the
help of pubshop. When everything is added in cloud storage, trigger it, go to data flow, extract it in our format
like uh extract from source, transform it in our
required format and then using prevention we avoid data leakage or we remove the
sensitive data from a file and then we give it to BigQuery. BigQuery is well capable of integrating with machine
learning where we have seen we can analyze
historic data, live data, anything you can do with BigQuery and then here in BigQuery only we'll use all this thing
like how to analyze or monitor our data everything we can. So monitoring we should do at every step just added as a
flow diagram. Now I have connected this GK with this data sources like cloud SQL
I have used because for relational data I will use cloud SQL cloud data store for NoSQL data I will use there are
others also just for example because whatever we have studied in till I have used that cloud memory store to use
cache data like for uh here in problem statement they says they are using MySQL
MSQL server so CloudSQL will deal with this radius is for caching memory
caching and we know cloud memory store in cloud will be helpful for memory caching and for MongoDB which is a noSQL
database we can use cloud data store because we need to span it globally so that's why we have choose clouded there
are others now we see in more details with the help of reference architecture there we get more details about this
just think of it as a and now I've also added management API
APG API management so this is used for API management. So whenever uh because
there will be some integration they said like they don't want to interrupt the integration their onremise integration
legacy integration should work. So that's why we have used a APG API management. So this will help to manage
API calls okay centrally. So this is overview of how a design look like for
EHR healthcare system. If this thing you can prepare in your
mind or at least somewhere on a paper while examination if they provide I
don't think it will. So if suppose you have a schematic in your mind. So what you can do is then answering the
question will be easy because whenever it comes to data database you think of these things whenever it comes to
scaling you know now Anthos GK you should not answer manage GK clusters
because if you choose Google GKE not Anthos then you won't be able to
seamlessly manage the fleet across onremise and cloud. So you have to think about that. So that's why I said
reading the business requirement and technical requirements
is crucial here. Now let me correct this. Now let's go
through base business and technical requirement and understand how the design flow is aligned with them. Now if you read all this, I will skip this
because we already read it multiple times. But after going through this diagram, if you read now this, you will
see that most of 99% of questions we have already answered. So this helps
like creating a workflow diagram definitely help you to answer your the
questions given in the exam more precisely. So chances of getting error is very less because you understand the
requirement clearly. Now so this was just overview on how case studies will
come in examination. How you you should set your thinking align to the case
studies like what in background you should think like this complete topology
what is the ask so accordingly there will be other like helicopter racing league mont kick games terraform earth
so terram earth sorry I said terapform so these are the other case studies so we'll go through them one by one but
later in the course because it's just a start and I don't want to like overburden with all these case studies
today only. So that's why let's move and see what's there next in our today's
slides. So now we start with Google cloud well architectured framework. So for any cloud or any uh business like
you have to follow some guidelines on how to do the architecture. So it's
not like what we think we should always do a consulting like what others think
and what should be a common goal to be achieved like there will be some pillars
we need to keep in mind before designing a solution. So that's why Google help us
with well architectured framework. they already have this well architecture framework and Google's recommend that if
you are an architect you should always follow this well architected framework before designing your solution now what
is this the well architected framework provide recommendation so it provide recommendation to help architects
developers administrators and other cloud practitioner design and operate a cloud topology that's secure efficient
resilient high performing and cost effective so if you follow this well architectured framework you should be
able to design a secure, efficient, resilient, high performing and cost effective solution. So, which is really
ask if you go to any case studies, you will see they will ask for one of these
pillars. A cross functional team of experts at Google validate the recommendation in
the well architected framework. So, a cross functional team of experts. So team of experts validate this
recommendations and they uh time to time they will update it as they found something important needs to be added.
So that's why I have not documented more about this in my slides. So we'll follow
the Google link only and I have provided the all necessary link so that whenever you are referring to this recordings you
can go and check the latest recommendations provided by the Google experts. The team creates the well
architected framework to reflect the expanding capabilities of Google cloud industry's best practices, community
knowledge and feedback from you. It's a feedback from us as well as a customer. Whatever the feedback we provide to
Google, they will add it in the well architecture framework as well. Whenever
and then they feel necessary to add it. So architecture framework pillars and perspective. There are some pillars and
perspective we need to understand so that we can easily grasp what is there
inside this architecture framework. The well architected framework is organized into five pillars. Okay. As shown in the
following diagram. Operational excellence. So whenever you are designing a solution you should keep in
mind that whatever the solution we are giving it should follow operational excellence pillar. Then other is
security, privacy and compliance. So whatever solution we are designing, it should be aligned with this pillar as
well. Then reliability, cost optimization and performance optimization. Then there is a perspective of AI and ML in which you
can always analyze the trends, analyze your uh data and you can
advance your infrastructure accordingly. So that perspective is with all. So you can
apply this AI and ML because these days everything is related artificial int machine learning. So whatever is your
data trend you can analyze that and you can improve your business strategy. Now let's see one by one about each of these
pillars. So let's open this link.
I'll close all this.
Now design well architected clot topologies. So if you want to design a well architected claw topologies you
have to follow these pillars. Now let's go to first operational excellence and
let's see in our slide what I have mentioned. So in operational excellence pillar if you don't want to go through
that big document. So at least critical points I have mentioned here but I will
suggest go through this you will have a complete understanding. The operational excellence pillar in the Google cloud well architected framework provide
recommendations to operate workload efficiently on Google cloud. Operational excellence in the cloud involves
designing, implementing and managing cloud solutions that provide value, performance, security and reliability.
The recommendation in this pillar help you continuously improve and adopt workload to meet the dynamic and evering
need in the cloud. So let's see what is there in this pillar. So these are for managers and leaders,
cloud operation team, site reliability engineer, cloud architects and engineers, devops team. So every should
be all this target audience should be aligned with this pillar to achieve
operational excellence you should embrace automation. Now if you want to achieve this operational excellence in
which you can say yeah my team or whatever the project I'm working on is
excelling in its operational capabilities. So how you can achieve that? By embracing automation. Try to
use automation wherever you can. Orchestration like standalone management
will never help you as a team. So you should think of orchestration
like if you are using containers think of Kubernetes as a orchestration platform.
There are others as well. And datadriven insights. This you can take help of AI
and ML automation help to eliminate toil like if it's not if you are doing
everything manually definitely there will toil and load of work if you're using automations for most of the things
so it will be more swiftly things will happen it also streamlines and builds
guard rails around the repetitive task definitely if you are doing if your
engineers are doing same task repetitively this can be you can remove using automation ations right so as an
architect you should give this type of suggestion orchestration help to coordinate complex processes yeah so
orchestrator will be responsible for handling those processes you as a individual don't want to don't need to
manage things in independently datadriven insights enable evidence-based decision making okay so
what happened and how to improve that so for that datadriven
insights will be helpful by using this practice you can optimize cloud operations s reduce cost, improve
service availability and enhance security. Right? So in exam if they ask
about how you can improve operational excellence. So you should think of these three things automation, orchestration
and datadriven insights. So these three
key aspects of operational excellence. Optional excellence in the cloud goes beyond technical proficiency in cloud
operations. It include a cultural shift. It's not about a technical proficiency. If you are technically managing
everything well, it's it's not like you are excelling your operations. It include a cultural shift that encourage
continuous learning and experimentation. So it's a complete cultural shift. Teams must be empowered to innovate, iterate
and adopt a growth mindset. A culture of operational excellence fosters a collaborative environment where
individuals are encouraged to share ideas, challenge assumptions and drive improvements. So it's a team effort
and we should keep these things in mind because whenever designing things we should think of like suppose I'm giving
a solution which which hardly can be automated so it's not a good design
right so we should think of that orchestration whenever possible use orchestration
make always a space for AI and ML so that you can
ev evidence-based decision making you can do using those analysis. Now other is security, privacy and
compliance pillar which is our most important and we should be always like uh aware of
these things whatever has recommended in this pillar. So the security privacy and compliance pillar in the Google cloud
well architected frameworks provides recommendations to help you design deploy and operate cloud workloads that
meet your requirement for security privacy and compliance different as name suggest. So these are for CISOs, chief
information security officials, business unit leaders and IT managers, security architect and engineers, dev sec op
teams, compliance officers and risk managers. So definitely all areas of security
engineers needs to take care of this pillar. Now to ensure
that your Google cloud workload meet your security, privacy and compliance requirement, all of the stakeholder in your organization must adopt a
collaborative approach. In addition, you must recognize that cloud security is a shared responsibility between you and
Google. So it's not about like it is or this security is managed by Google. So I
should not be worried about that. Every time try to add as much security you can but also think about latency or other
things. It should be balance of both. The recommendation this pillar are
grouped into core security principle. Each principle based recommendation is mapped to one or more of the key deployment focus area of the cloud
security that might be critical to your organization. So each recommendation highlight
guidance about the use and configuration of goal of product and capabilities to help improve organization security posture. So let's see
the core principles here and we have to be very strict and we should remember
this every time whenever we are designing security. The recommendation is a pillar group with the following
core principle of security. Every principle in this pillar is important. Depending on the requirement of your recognition workload, you might choose
to prioritize certain principle. So you can prioritize or de prioritize according to your need. So implement
security by design. So your security should be implemented by design only at start. So integrate cloud security and
network security consideration starting from the initial design phase of application and infrastructure. It's not like I have I will build my
infrastructure first and later I will think about security. It won't it won't never it won't help because there will
be too many design flaws in terms of security and it will get compromised. Google cloud provide architecture
blueprints and recommendations to help you apply this principle. Okay. Follow all Google cloud recommendation to
securely design your infrastructure. Now implement zero trust. You should always implement zero zero trust means you
don't trust anything and you just deploy
a solution whatever access is needed you will just provide that you won't provide any extra access like zscaler has added
the zero trust network where they they don't provide you the access of the complete network they just provide you
with the access of application particular application where you want access to so use and never
trust Always verify approach where access to resourc is granted based on continuous verifications of trust. Okay.
So every time a access is granted a identity should verify like if you
trust that identity then only or principle anything you should allow the
access. Google cloud support this principle through a product like enterprise security premium enterprise
premium and identity aware proxy. So in identity proxy we have seen like first
of all we limit direct access and v that identity proxy we allow access with the
help of IM and whatever the source which hits our target destinations are of Google only. So we never allow
external IP to access the target using identity workers. We have already seen that and implement shift clip security.
Implement security control early in the software development cycle. Avoid security defect before system changes are made. Okay.
Detect and fix security bugs early, fast and reliably after the system changes are committed. Google cloud support this
principle through a product like cloud build, binary authorization and artifact registry. We have seen binary authorization in which
how we can restrict a malicious image
from getting published into the CI/CD life
cycle. So there are other things like cloud build and artifact registry where
you can scan the threads vulnerabilities and also implement shiplift security. You can do implement preemptive cyber
defense. Adopt a proactive approach to security by implementing robust fundamental measure like threat
intelligence should enable threat intelligence wherever you can like with the help of security command center.
This approach help you build a foundation for more effective threat detection response. Google cloud approach security controls aligned with
this principle. Now use AI securely and responsibly. Develop and deploy AI systems in a responsible and secure
manner. The recommendation for this principle learned with the guidance in the AI and ML perspective. The well architect. These are all like you just
need to you just need to read and keep in our mind. Use AI for security. Use AI
to improve your existing security system and process through gemin
capabilities. Use AI as a tool to increase the automation of remedial work and ensure security hygiene to make
other system more secure. Finally, meet regularity compliance and privacy needs. adhere to industry specific regulation
as I said like illness data we should not uh there are others also we'll see in future compliance standard and
privacy requirement Google cloud help you meet this obligation through a product light assured workload we have seen like suppose you are building a
healthare system so in assured workload there's option to select okay what
suppose you are building a healthare system and in cloud and you want to you
don't you are not aware like how to design things to be compliant. So what you can do is you just follow like in in
the country which in which you want to design this what sort of obligations or compliance
requirement are for an healthcare organization and you can just select all these while creating your assured
workload. So once that assured workload project is created whatever
things are aligned to that compliance only can be created by your engineers. Anything which is out of compliance this
assured workload won't allow to be created. So that's why at least you are sure that everything whatever is being
done by our engineers are compliant. Organization policy service you can apply organization policy in a way that
anything out of compliance should not be entertained. and our compliance resource center. You can always follow Google
compliance resource center like uh
if you search on internet so they have a device document compliance cloud
compliance and regulation resource. So suppose compliance offering by industry as I said I am a healthcare and life
service. So, so then
region suppose I am into IMIA
all these compliance are related to healthcare in EMIA region. So go through
them. So Google is already helping you with this right? So you know now that okay
for if suppose in EMIA I am having in Ne Netherlands I am hosting my service. So
I should go into that. I should read that the Royal Netherlands generation institution is a nonprofit organ focused
on developing session process in the Netherland compliant with international standards such as ISO helps address Nian
standards such as N75.0 NT. So you are already
compliant with ISO 20 27,000 20 27,01 which covers these things. So
just make sure that you design a assure workload with this compliance or you follow all the guidelines in this. So
you are already covered for this Netherland and you can always go through them. You can read them what what things
are needed what security controls are needed under this complaint. So in this way
Google will help you. So and our compliance resource center. So we have seen that.
Now let's go to reliability PR pillar. So here also the reliability pillar in
the Google work cloud architective framework provide principle reliability like how things should work as as
intended and recommendation to help you design deploy and manage workload in Google. Reliability is a systems ability
to consistently perform its intended function. What it is intended to do it
should seamlessly and consistently per perform in that way only. That's why you may have seen cloud reliability engineer
roles. So they are responsible for suppose a system has been designed or is
services has been designed in a cloud. So whatever the interent function of that services you should always function
like that. So there should not be any deterioration. So reliability engineers make sure of that
with the defined conditions and maintain uninterrupted service. Best practice of reliability include redundancy. So redundancy should be there so that there
should not be a single point of failure. Fault tolerant design. So if there is a fault in one system, other system should
take monitoring should be like uh everything should be monitored so that in well advance we know about if
anything is going to fail and automated recovery process if anything is related or something so it should be
automatically recovered as part of reliability. So in this we will discuss the key areas
like minimal downtime. Reliability is considered like there should be minimal downtime. Enhanced user experience.
Whenever a user is accessing your service, it should be user should not
see any lags. It should be always enhanced experience for users. Data integrity.
There should not be any drop data loss or data corruption. So this is
a part of reliability, business continuity. So critical operation should always be in in process in in running so
that your business continues to grow. Compliance many industry have regulatory
requirement. We already discussed compliance lower long-term costs and reliability also because with the help
of proper monitoring they remove unnecessary expenditures. Right? So you know now that yeah okay
for my systems to run I need all these resources so that you don't incur any extra cost right forecasting you can do
so resolent architecture require upfront investment but resilency can help to reduce cost over time by preventing
expense save downtime avoiding reactive fixes and enabling more efficient
resource use right so less the downtime less the outages more the efficiency and
long-term lower costs. So this all and comes under reliability pillar. Now cost
optimization pillar. Costmation pillar in the Google cloud. So it deals with cost CTO's CIOS, CFOs. So these and
other executives who are responsible strategic cost management. So it depends upon them like how they think of how how
much cost they can incur on their cloud spending. architect, developer, administrator and
operators who make decision that affect cost at all stress of an organizational cloud journey. So our decisions affect
cost right. So that's why this pillar is important or crucial to us as well. The cost model for on-remise and cloud
workload differ significantly. So this is definitely in onremise the way
costing is done is totally different the way in which it works for cloud like
onremise IT cost include capital expenditure capex it's known as capex. You may hear this term so remember it.
So onremise IT cost include cap capital exp in advance like in advance they
procure the hardares all things. So it's a capex capital exp and operational
expenditure and after that they need a team a proper tools technologies to
operate that infrastructure whatever they have built
on premise hardware and software assets are acquired and acquisition cost are depreciated over the operating
over the operating life of the asset definitely if you buy a Cisco router or if firewall along the years it will
depreciate. There will be there will be like hardware breakdown other things will
happen. So definitely whatever the capital expenditure you have done on buying or procuring those devices will
depreciate over the time. In the cloud the cost of the most cloud resources are treated as opex. So in cloud it's a
operational expenditure. Whatever you use you pay for that only where cost are incurred when the cloud resources are
consumed. you don't consume it, you definitely you don't pay for that. So this fundamental difference underscores
the importance of following core principle of the cost optimization. So now in cloud already it's a cost
optimized but definitely we should be always aligned with this core principle.
Align cloud spending with business values. Ensure that your cloud resource deliver measurable business values by
aligning it spending with business objectives. So what is the business objectives? So in the case studies of
EHR healthcare we have seen that business is clearly saying that they
want all these facilities but they also want to
limit the cost. So and as an architect we should be always we we should always
make sure that while designing a solution what are our business objectives right? If a business is not
willing to spend that amount of money then we should not think about premium
services that type of but definitely it's all about business. Whatever the business objective
aligning to that we will design the solution to limit the cost. Now foster a
culture of cost awareness. Ensure that people across organization consider the cost impact decision and activities definitely and ensure that they have
access to the cost information required to make informed decision. Okay. So you should be aware of what if you are
designing or adding a solution or services what cost it should incur to your business. Optimize resource usage
provision only the resource that you need and pay only for the resource that you consume right. So
in cloud we should make sure that like suppose you are building a DR in DR
you can use a preemptable VMs so that there are VMs which can go down at any
time but suppose you build a VM using a manage instance group which auto heal
and it's for DR right so you can save at least 25 to 30% of cost so this type of
design you should think Optimize continuously. Continuously monitor your cloud resources usage and cost and
proactively make adjustment as needed to optimize your spending. This approach involves identifying addressing
potential cost inefficiencies before they become significant problems. So optimize continuously. You should it's
not like you should you should monitor your expenditure cost expenditure. There's in cloud billing you see the
trends and everything. So cost inefficiencies before they become
significant problems. So you should not see a certain spike in your
cost usage. So we should make sure of that. So as an architect we should be aligned with this cost optimization core
principles. Now finally last performance optimization pillar. So this pillar in
Google cloud recommendation to optimize the performance of workload in Google cloud. Right? So the recommendation can
help your organization to operate efficiently, improve customer satisfaction, increase revenue and reduce cost. For example, when the back
end processing time on application decreases, user experience faster response time which can lead to higher
user retention and more revenue. So suppose for your application processing
time if you decrease somehow using some better services then definitely user experience will
uh be good. Like if suppose I access a website which is very efficient like it
is efficiently managing my request. Whatever I I what intented whatever I entered to do on that website I can do
efficiently definitely my experience will be good and I will I will always use that particular website to consume
my data whatever in in my sense. So which can lead to higher user retention
and more revenue. So performance is the key to retain your
business and customers. The performance optimization process can enulate trade-off between performance and cost.
But there is a trade-off like you have to balance this. If you definitely
increasing performance will incur cost, right? So there is a trade-off and you have to think wisely like how you can
balance between the two. However, optimic performance can sometime help you reduce cost but sometimes it can
help you reduce cost. For example, when the load increases, autoscaling can help to provide predictable performance by
ensuring that the system resources are not overlated. So, so in cloud it's possible, right?
So, you have configured a autoscaling. Now, there if there is not that amount
of load, one or two instance is running. But suppose load increases and you have set the maximum instance to five and at
that time all five instance will be ready and your consumer experience won't impact right end user experience won't
impact. So in that case you saved cost also like throughout the year you have just run one or two two instances and
you paid for that only but during the peak load you have deployed five instances but during the peak load you
have the business good business also right so that way you
are always on top with performance and you can reduce the cost as well so
autoscaling so you have to think about those solutions only which can balance
between performance and cost right if I use a very premium virtual machines like
say five premium virtual machines and I'm not using autoscaling so every time performance will be on top but cost will
be also on top right so that's why we have to think of those solution like autoscaling and other things which we
discussed throughout the course performance automation is a continuous process not a one-time activity right it's not like one time you configured
and uh it's done you have to continuously monitor it and performs
Performance optimization whenever needed. The following diagram shows the stages in the performance optimization process. Now define requirement first of
all define the requirements what are needed then design and deploy according to the requirement then monitor and
analyze. So this is very crucial right in optimization. What suppose there is a requirement
basis on the requirement I have done a design and deployed it but if I don't monitor and analyze it how I will
optimize it right. So trends will help you the insights will help you to
optimize it like think like suppose there is a requirement of uh five
virtual machines right so what I did is I designed a system like I created a MIG
manage instance group using template and deployed five virtual machines okay that's done but what is the requirement
and what is the actual use case actual
load on your virtual machines. For that what you can do is you can set a monitoring. You can do a monitoring on
those five virtual machines and see what is the trends. Are your five virtual machines getting fully utilized? If not
then why using five virtual machines every time. So suppose for the last 6
month you have extracted the monitoring and uh dumps and you have analyzed it
and you see that okay three VMs are sufficient. So what you can do is you can run a autoscaling with three minimum
VMs and you can keep it to five to still you save cost of two VMs in each quarter right every time your billing is done.
So keep in mind this approach define requirement design and deploy and then monitor and analyze to optimize that
right now here the core principle are define requirement as we have seen design and
deploy monitor analyze and optimize. Now finally AI and ML perspective. So this is a perspective. This is not a
pillar. So this perspective is applicable to each and every pillar. AI and machine learning offer architects
new tools to enhance design processes. Right? Improve accuracy and explore more creative possibilities. So they using
BigQuery you can analyze you can integrate A and ML with BigQuery and you can analyze the trends like how your
business is going how how different services are working in your cloud and you can get a complete
analysis in uh charts diagrams so that you can think of more like how you can
improve so instead of replacing human creativity AI acts so it's not like it's replacing human creativity I acts as
powerful tool to aid in task like data analysis, generative design and visualization. As I said like it's not
like if I give you a Excel of 2,000 lines and just from the values it's very difficult. So using AI in quickly you
can convert that Excel into a diagram visual diagram trends charts.
So using that maps you can quickly business
suppose a nontechnical person also can like management or anyone can decide like how the business is going on what
strategies they need to take to improve their business or if extra expenditure is going on. So this AI and ML can help
you to identify those leading to better design more efficient construction and faster workflows. Right?
So there are few enhanced design process like generative design. So AI algorithm
can explore numerous design options based on given parameters like suppose you don't you are not aware of how to
design things you know like you know you need two database one storage and one so AI can help you to generate design for
you data analysis automation of repetitive task you can do 3D modeling generative schedules and analyzing so
much more things so it's a complete separate course in which if you are interested you can
uh enroll for for the AI AI and ML at least start the basics so that you are aware because these days everything most
of the times things are being done by hand and at least they have some integration all services will have some
integration with a ML so that's why PCA has already added this perspective and
it says this perspective is applicable to all these pillars so that's the overview of uh the pillars
so we have seen like total
Five pillars are there. Operational excellence. So we know now how what is operational excellence. Security,
privacy and compliance. Reliability we know. Cost optimization we know. Performance optimization we know. So I
can understand that things these things are busy. These are sorry boring as these are purely a theory. But yeah if
we are studying a plot architecture course. So definitely we have to go through these theories as well. Right.
So considering all these pillars only we have to design our solution. So going
through that through this course in future if we design or if we do any lab
so we apply all these things there so that we are always aligned with the
expectations of this course right and if you go to interviews and all whatever we
say and whatever the design answers we are giving our answer should be aligned with these five pillars. So that's why
it's must and I recommend you go through this link because I have just added
whatever key key points are there. But if you go into this documentation
architecture framework, you see very rich documentation prepared by Google and it's not like Wikipedia. It's it's a
human readable and it's understandable also in interesting I will say. So I've
gone through them and it's quite good I thought that so you know operational excellence also ensure operational
readiness and performance using cloud ops managing incident and problems managing and optimize cloud resources
automate and manage change. So in key points we have just seen automate things
whenever possible use automation but suppose you want to go deep into that how I can achieve automation to achieve
operational excellence. So you can go through this automate and manage change. So what tools are available CI/CD build
CI/CD pipelines. So this will give you the more insight
about operation. Similarly for all five pillars they have this complete rich documentation which can help you to
understand. Now enough on that. Let's go to other
next part of our slide which says reference architecture. So we'll see
reference architecture today and then we'll continue from tomorrow for but reference
architecture is something which which is also a theory but yeah it will definitely help us and it is quite
interesting. Let's see we follow the Google official documentation to understand the because reference architecture is something which can
change right as per the recommendation given by us customers Google technical team experts. So that's why I am
following Google documentation and I have provided links as well for you to go through and whatever the key areas where we should focus I have highlighted
it here so that whenever you are preparing for interviews or something you can just come to this
slide and you can see like in reference architecture what are the key points
which I should remember like suppose if you come to this page and being cloud architect first let's go through what is
there we should be aware of their architecture and study about the design consideration to think of other possible
design approach fulfilling the well-known framework pillars we discussed in the previous slides. So
the well-known uh pillars whatever we discussed as of now they those are the
standards like which we need to follow to create our design but how to think of a design according to the
uh business needs. So for that we need some references right like suppose I want to build a house right so I know I
need to use a good quality cement I need to use TMD bars of good quality so these
are the pillars right good quality cement good uh TMD bars uh good quality
wood for my doors and windows tiles everything these are the pillars which
will build a good house right but reference architecture what sort of
house I need to build procuring a good quality cement won't build a good design
correct so it will build a strong house whatever I build using a good cement it
will bring a strong foundation but a design which should look good when I
live in that house it should it should like give me everything overall picture should be
good right for that we need to follow some references in housing what we do is we took a reference from our relatives
friends how they have built it or from the locality like uh how my neighbor has built the house and taking that four and
five references we create one unique design for our own house. Okay, this is
just example of housing for this reference architecture is also the same. So using the pillars you make sure that
your design is accurate, strong enough to hold the business needs as well as
the uh trending or going technologies right you never lag if you follow those
five pillars but for your design to overall fit the business needs you'll
have to follow a reference for that this reference architectures are very crucial. Now we discussed below
reference architecture what are there we quickly see single zone deployment on comput engine regional deployment. So
when to choose single zone when to choose regional when to choose multi-reional when to choose global deployment because in case studies also
you will see okay my business is limited to Frankfurt in Germany. So if somebody is
saying his business is limited to Frankfurt in Germany. So we can guess
okay it's related to single zone. If somebody says no my uh business is
limited to Frankfurt then it's a regional my business is limited to EU European Union
so I can think of multi-reional global I everywhere my is my presence so then
global so think of this this is really needed in for interviews as well as exam
perspective now key areas to be discussed here is architecture product used so first of all we'll see the
architecture of each, what products are used for each type of deployment, then use cases of this. Use cases are very
crucial here when we are dealing with architectural examinations because you
are intended to do these things practically for some organizations, right? So that's why use cases are very
crucial here and reference architecture I personally believe is something which will be very helpful whenever we are
going to design a solution. Then design consideration security privacy and compliance always at top because we are
security professionals. We notice that security privacy and compliance almost remains same in all sort of deployment
discussed above. As a security architect we must ensure to deliver those security design while deploying services in
cloud. So let's go one by one and see what's there.
Close all this this one only. Okay.
So Google cloud Deployment archetypes as a cloud
architect or decision maker when you plan to deploy an application in cloud you need to choose a deployment archetype right that's suitable for your
application. So first of all the layout the initial starting point should be
what arch type I need to build. So suppose what is a deployment archype? I'll quickly go to the points which are
needed. A deployment archetype is an abstract provider independent model that you use as a foundation to build
application specific deployment architect that meet your business and technical requirement. So it's a provider independent. It's not like it's
Google cloud only I can design in such in every cloud provider. This is a basis
on which you design each deployment archetype such as a combination of failure domains where an application can
run. These failure domains can be one or more Google cloud zones because we are discussing Google cloud here and they
can be extended to include your on-premise data center failure domains in other cloud providers as well. Okay. The following diagram shows six
application deployed in Google cloud. Each application uses deployment actor that meet its specific requirement. So
now in this is app one is a zonal app 2 is a
regional because it span across the region aa right multi-reional means it
span across region aa and region bb right global it span across both region
multicloud so here you see that f5 spans across multi-reion as well as
other cloud platform right f5 is in other cloudware hybrid So hybrid means within GCP as well as on
premises right. So in this way you decide zonal
regional multi-reional global multicloud and hybrid. So if if there is a leg
towards onremise it will be a hybrid. If it is a leg toward other cloud platform
it will be multiloud other we know. So let's start from first zonal.
So how a zonal deployment look like? Sonal cloud deployment. So it's a very basic
zonal deployment arch type. The application run in single cloud zone as shown in the following figure. Now
suppose you have a very basic requirement right. So there will be end user you will
choose a region a region inside GCP and within a region you will choose a zone and there you will deploy in the same
zone you will deploy front end back end and database. Very basic deployment. So to be able to recover from zone outages
you can use a dual zone architecture but suppose some outage happens in zone A then your deployment won't work in that
case what you can do is you can use multiple zone within same reason zone A
and zone C and you can replicate your databases so that every time a copy of
database is available to failover. So in this let's say use cases what are
the use cases so here I have that's why I added these things architecture product use use cases design
consideration so use cases so first of all we have discussed the architecture
now the use case cloud development and test environment now suppose you are
going to build a design and it says it's for cloud development and test environments only and why to incur cost
right you can if suppose This development is in such a way that
you don't need a backup of database right so you can create this one it will highly save your cost right but suppose
your development and test en mostly for test environment you will need because
whatever the last user had tested it should retain that data so this is also well suited for that right so cloud
development and test environment you can go with zonal application that don't need high availability
So you are building an application on cloud we don't need high availability you can go with zonal low latency
networking between application component. So there are some advantage also because all the resources
sit within a single zone. So latency is very low here. A single zone architect might be well suited for applications
such as batch computing that need low latency and high bandwidth network connection among the compute nodes.
Right? Suppose like uh take example of Frankfurt. I am my user is sitting in
Frankfurt and he want to do a batch processing huge computational processing over a cloud. Now if I create and now
suppose this batch processing is one time job and once he created once
processing don't say is batch processing he need he need to do a computational processing anything and it's a one-time
job. So you can create this type of architecture highly bandwidth will be highly because it is also located in the
same region as cloud and latency will be very less. Now migration of commodity
workload the zonal deployment active provided cloud migration path for commodity onremise apps for which you have no control over the code or that
can't support architectures beyond a basic active passive topology. So no control over the code. Now for that sort
of deployment also you can choose think of that if some use case you follow where says
that onremise app for you you have no control
over the code or that can't support architectures beyond a basic active passive topology like it does not follow
active passive topology. It's a very standalone type of application. Then you can think of this zonal design. Running
license restricted software. The zonal deployment archetype might be well suited for license system where running
more than one instance at a time is either too expensive or is not permitted. So if suppose you have a
license restriction which says you cannot run more than one systems or a license is restricted to certain region
then you can go with zone out. So these are the use cases. Now in design considerations
zone outage. So you can cons this is the consideration you need to think of if the application in a single zone with no
follower zone then the zone is then when a zone outage occur the application can't serve the request we can we are
aware of this then region outage if a region outage occur definitely
then verify that the application workers actually if you need robustness again region outage consider using multi-reion okay we understand that because this is
our next regional approach we already know that the risk of zonal. If a zone
goes down definitely our applications won't be accessible.
Now what is a regional? In regional this is end user. Now your front end your
application will have definitely three tire system right front end, back end and database. So
now here as you have choose regional in regional means you will choose a one of
the region like say Germany sorry Frankfurt and in Frankfurt there will be three zones or four zones let's say say
three zone A B C. So what I will do is I will pick a region and I will pick all
three zones. So in zone A, zone B and zone C. So what I will do is I will
because my deployment is not distributed. So definitely I will have to use work uh
use load balancers because user traffic will be distributed evenly to all front
ends and then I will have a internal load balancer which will distribute the traffic evenly to backends and then this
backends will be connected with one main database which will have a replica in two other zones. Suppose if one of the
zone fails it still have this two. If two zone also fail it have one. So it's very less chance that all three zone
within a regional uh deployment will fail at one time. So this is quite a
good approach I will say. If you are building a regional
deployment then this we can follow. Now here we can do a DNS with failover
routing also. All right. So the present diagram shows an application with front end and back end governor that
independently three zones in external road val forward. The topology in present diagram is robust against zone
outage but not against region outage right. So here if any zone outage occur
definitely uh it's a fault tolerant because we have added three zones but if suppose complete region aa bend down
then it will be a problem. So that's why it's a regional. So here what we do is we
create a primary in region A and failover in region B. If suppose
anything and we replicate the database. So at every instance of time a copy of database will be available to fail
failover region. So if something goes wrong with this region with failover routing policy. So DNS if if DNS server
will see that there is a no reply there will be health checks will be there. So
if it sees that there is a no reply from region A, it will route all users query to fail over region BB. So this you can
set up. So here also use cases will be high availability application with user
within a geographic area. Now suppose you want you want to build a high application high available application within a single region then you can go
with this approach low latency for application user because it's a regional. So what if your regions if
your users are also in the same region then it will be low latency definitely low latency networking between application component compliance with
data residency and server netty requirement. So this is something extra added here right. So sometimes you will
see like as I have shown you the compliance resource center there each country there are different types of
compliance right some compliance will be restricted to a country some complaints will be restricted to a domain like
healthcare e-commerce financial payment related. So depending on that
for this particular compliant it will be a regional. Now suppose there is a regional compliance like your data or
whatever processing you are doing should be done within Germany only or Frankfurt only then you can go with this right now
design consideration downtime during region outage cost of redundant resource definitely as you go beyond this the
cost will increase because you are building a redundant resources as suppose there is no failure in region BB
every time it your requests are getting served by region A then definitely all these infrastructure which we have built
because this will all will incur charge right so cost of redundant resources
will be there so this thing we need to take care of multi-reional we'll just
see what it look like multi-reion will look like this region A
so there is a difference between regional and multi in regional also we have used region A and region BB but
their active and failover we have used Here in multi-reion both the regions are active at a time right. So that's the
difference here. So here also the same we use DNS with
load balancing. Here we use load balancing because both of the regions are active at a time. There we used
failover policy as one of the region is time at a time and other is failover up at a time and other is just a failover
keep as a standby. This is again use cases are there compliance with data residency and
sovereignity requirement because you are still within a single country right
multi-reion within the same country so it's not like you have a global deployment so
compliance with data residency and soet requirement you can ser now finally global
global will look like this global anycast load balancer we will use Anyone
globally want to access your application that load balancer will serve it purpose. Then
here product used.
So this type of architecture I'm just going through it because you should be aware like if you are you came across
the scenario where they are discussing global you should come to this page and check about how things are added in
global load global deployments. Then there will be hybrid.
So hybrid you will see here is there will be application user onromise application primary side and in Google
cloud you can add a failover site right. So suppose your onremise application is down you can choose your application
user to move to cloud. So this type of deployment is disaster recovery site for an application premise application. So
this way you can build a disaster recovery for your on-premise application onremise development for cloud application.
So here onremise application development testing and staging and once everything
is done your developer then push the application in a production on Google
cloud using CI/CD. So everything you do on premises and once your application is
ready for prod you move it to cloud. So this type of approach you can also follow. There are multiple approach.
So you have to go whenever you need you can just check it
then multicloud application primary site in Google cloud
failover you can add in any other cloud whatever you think is feasible for your
business same as multicloud and hybrid means in hybrid one of the leg is onromise in multiloud one or or more leg
could be on other clouds that's the difference now comparative analysis this.
So you see infrastructure comparative analysis of goal cloud deployment archetypes design consideration
infrastructure availability 99.9 99 99.99 5 9 and then 5 9. So in zonal
resource you will have 99.9. So infrastructure availability will be
that. So in some types case studies you will see that they need 99.9%
availability. So zonal resource will be sufficient for that right. So you should
be aware of this robustness of infection again zone outages RTO of hours or days
of hours or days. So like request time out of hours or days
this these all things are there infrastructure availability
but I will just suggest you don't just go through these only not more key areas to be discussed we spend more time
discussing security design standard architecture product used case design
consideration security privacy and compliance let me go to work because most of the
time Security same design consideration.
There are some more documentation here. Maybe we are missing it.
priority use. Yeah. So in reference architecture actually so we have we have
gone to deployment arch types after that there is a reference architecture for each and every arch type we have
discussed there is a reference architecture as well. So this is the reference architecture.
So follow this documentation as well. Here you will see in more details like
how web server, VM, compute engine, regional cloud browser then primary database, Postgress SQL, standby SQL,
then regional bucket. But here the most important thing is
this security, privacy and compliance for each of them single zone, regional, multi-reional and global. For each of
them there is a security privacy and compliance requirement. So if you go to let's go to one of them because most of
the same most of them are similar that's why I have added it here. Let me add this link here. So if you
you click on this link you will get all this reference architecture
hyperlink. Okay I'll add it later. Just keep in
mind that there will be one more link here because the last hyperlink which I have given is landing to this deployment
archive. So that is also necessary but reference architecture is most important I will say because here we get a clear
idea about the placement of our services right so that's why go through them and
let's study the security only here others are also
important for exam perspective but from this course perspective we are more concerned about security privacy and compliance so let's see what's there
this will our last then we'll offer today this section describe factors that you should consider when you use this
reference architecture to design and build a zonal topology in Google cloud that meets so it says zonal regional but
most of the times you will see the same so protection against external threat so what you should do to protect against
external threat to protect your application against external threat like DOS cross-ite scripting you can use
Google cloud armor security policies which we have seen in TCSC so we are aware of this right each policy set of
rules that specifies certain condition that should be evaluated ated and action to take when conditions are met.
So think of this protection against external threat. Whenever in case studies you see that business
requirement is to protect against ex most of the times it will be there. So you will have Google cloud armor
security policies for that right each policy is a set of rule that certain condition that should be evaluated and
action to be taken when conditions are met. For example, a rule could specify that if the incoming traffic source IP
address match a specific IP address or C range, then the traffic must be denied.
Now, in a rule, you mentioned that okay, from suppose some IP is malicious and
you just added a policy saying anything coming from this IP should be dropped at external load balancer end only. So, you
can also apply preconfiguration web application firewall rules. We have seen that there are set of preconfigured web
by rules which are given by model security and they help us to tackle with
more recent types of attacks. So this comes under protection against external threat. So we should be aware of it.
External access VMs. So what to do with external access for VMs? In the reference architecture this is document
describe the VMs that host the application tire web tire and database don't need inbound access from the
internet. Okay. So in this reference architecture
so these VMs don't need inbound access because these are all a private
application. So why they need a inbound access from internet. So what you can do
for that is don't assign external IP address to those VM. So limit external IP address
to the VM. This is one more security VM image security. To help ensure VM image security can use trusted image. trusted
image or image with software that meets your policy and security requirement. So how to ensure that
define an organization policy that restrict the usage of image in the specific public image projects. So how
to set that you can just open this and there will be list of organization
policies. So compute trusted image project.
So here constraint this is the name of the constraint constraint compute dot trusted image project. So always choose
image from a trusted image right. So you can go
through that and then service account privileges this are this is very crucial like if service account keys are
persisted so if those keys are compromised then it's a huge risk. So VMs in that instead of using default
service account we recommend that you create a dedicated service account. Never go with default service account because they have multiple accesses
which are not needed. So always use a dedicated custom service account and
assign a role to a service account. Whatever role that service account is actually needed SSH security. Now don't
allow direct SSH to your virtual machines. Instead use identity aware proxy forwarding with cloud OS login
API. So use identity aware proxy. So that direct SSH access won't be
possible. SS such access will be proxied via identity aware proxy. We have seen
that and we also see it in our labs. Network security. So to deploy network
security use cloud next generation firewall policies. Each firewall rules lets you control traffic based on parameter like protocol, IP address and
port, configure PPC firewalls and then more security conditions are
considerations are there. But these are the recommendation. I think most of
thing we already know because we have completed our PCSE. But I just wanted to show you that from an architecture point
of view also these things are sufficient whatever we have discussed in PCSC. So
that's all. So we have discussed all this. I will add this hyperlink here so that you get link to these three
architecture product used use cases to study that just overview.
Let's me go back to this.
Yeah, this one. So first of all you will see architecture for each zone. In that
architecture you will see a proper diagram given by Google and then products used. What are the products
used in that architecture? Compute engine, cloud load balancing, cloud storage, VPC right
now use cases you will see why these are used. So instead of either you can go in
deployment archype or directly you can jump to reference architecture because it is in more details and you have we
have some design considerations as well, right?
So that's all you better I will suggest let go through this system designs as well like how they have choose it. They
will also give you the options like instead of using VMs what they must have used. Now comput services the reference
on this document uses comput engine VM for all tiers the design guidance document specific to comput engine.
Depending on the requirement of your application you can choose the from the following Google cloud comput services. You can choose containers also right
instead of using VMs you can run containerized applications in GK cluster. GK is a container that automate
deploying scaling and managing containerized applications. So now this is a very basic reference they have
given right but they are also giving us a hint like if you don't want to follow this basic go with containers if you
don't want to go with containers go with serverless. If you prefer to focus your IT efforts on a data and application
instead of setting up an operating infrastructure suppose you don't want to set infrastructure first of all you
don't want to use VM complete OS so then go with containers you don't want to use
containers also you just want to focus on your code and applications go with uh
this serverless serverless will be platform as a service right like cloud run and
directly run your applications over that so that's why this design consideration
are very important to note because whatever the key area key area is system design you
will get all those design considerations key area so everything come comes under
system design only. So under system design region selection is there. How how you choose region? How you choose
compute services? How you choose storage services? What are the options available in this type of zonal database services?
Then comes security, privacy and compliance. We have already seen then for reliability what we need to do
for each pillar they will give you the options right. Cost for cost optimization in
this case what things can be done and finally there will be performance
there will be performance performance optimization right so now you may have understood that we first discussed the
five pillars then we have discussed the reference
archetypes and in this reference archetypes we have seen what are the design consideration we have focused
more on security but there are others also And each reference architect le
textures focus on those five pill five pillars only. So five pillars are that's why important to note. So but today my
intention was there was more theory today I can understand but my intention was to understand all these things like
designing and planning. Whenever you are going to design and plan a cloud solution then you should be aware of
Google cloud well architectured framework. Then you should be aware of reference architectures because without
thinking about a reference how you can implement a solution references should be in our mind to design a best physible
solution I can say. So these two critical things we already covered today
for tomorrow we'll start with landing zone design in Google cloud which is also very important and each and every
cloud enterprise organization will follow this step while planning their cloud journey. The first thing which
comes in mind is creating a landing zone. So we'll see how what are the things we need to consider while
designing a landing zone and then maxic is something which is a technical part. We'll discuss that as well. So that's
all for today. Thank you very much for your time. I'll see you in the next class. Have a nice
day. Bye.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

42 GCP Security#####

Transcript


Hi everyone, welcome to the day two of our professional cloud architect course under the head of uh security
masters program. So let's see uh where we stand like what we have covered
yesterday and what to cover for today. So whatever highlighted here we already
covered. So we covered the overview of case studies. We covered designing and planning solution in which well
architected framework. We have seen references reference architectures. We have seen like what we should learn from
those while designing the solution. How we can take the references of multiple deployment types like zone region
multi-reion hybrid so multicloud. So that we have covered
almost all theory. So today what I did did is first of all this is the leftover from
the architecture point of view which is a landing zone design. We'll cover that first and then we start with Google
cloud connectivity. So I thought like in parallel we should cover both theory as
well as lab. So that's why we start some lab today as well. So in Google cloud connected we'll see first quickly we'll
see cloud connectivity overview like what sort of connectivities are available when we think of Google cloud
and we want to connect it to our onremise as well as other cloud providers. So we see what sort of
connectivities are there then we will do a lab on classic VPN and further we will
do a lab on HAVPN as well. There are two types of VPN available and it's very uh important to note like because because
for a security engineer yeah it's definitely it will come your way when you are dealing with uh interconnects.
So we will see like how you'll have to configure it actually. So that's why it's crucial and we will study that and
then max sec so media access control security overview this is I have seen like organizations are using this to
encrypt their data in transit like uh whenever
in combination with max sec and VPN a provider makes that the integrity and
confidentiality of data is never compromised. So we'll see everything in detail. So first of all we start with
landing zone design in Google cloud. So let's go to
this one landing zone. So a landing zone is also called a cloud foundation. So
it's a foundation is a basic uh setup you have to follow while
so suppose you your organization is planning to move to a cloud. So there will be two things one will be rehost
and another will be cloud native. So what's the difference between these two is now suppose you are having
like EHR healthcare we have seen yesterday. So they have some of their hostings on premise and one of their
data center was lease was expiring so they want to move to cloud. So this type
of deployment will be called as a rehost. So rehost in the sense what you are doing is you are
transferring or from your onremise you are now moving to cloud. So it's
like something was there on premise and now you are shifting it to cloud. So this will come under reuse and native
means you're newly building some solution into the cloud which is purely cloud native. So
mostly you will see these two type of deployment in practical world that's why I have highlighted that. So a landing
zone comes in mind like whenever you start your first decision about moving
into the cloud. That's why it's called as a cloud foundation is a modular and scalable. Modular and scalable means it
it should contain your future needs as well and you should scale as per your needs. Configuration
it's it's a sort of configuration. So definitely it's for technical engineers like us that enable organization to
adopt Google cloud for their business needs. A landing zone is often a
prerequest site to deploying enterprise workload in a cloud environment. So you see it's a prerequisite
if you want to deploy your workload in cloud environment. Lighting zone is not a zone or a zonal resource. So don't get
confused with with a zone like GCP zone or zonal resource. It's totally different thing. When we go more deep,
we will understand it better. We refer below Google documentation to understand
landing zone in details. Why we are following Google documentation is they keep updating their document with the
latest trends and technologies. So we always follow the official documentation so that we are never behind and we know
what latest innovations are coming so that we can design our things basis on that. So let's open it.
So I will just focus on what are the major things here so that it will save
us time save us some time and I've given the link you can always in your free
time you go and refer all these things. So what is a Google cloud landing zone? Landing zone help you help your
enterprise deploy use and scale Google cloud services more securely right. So it is
it is like part of a security you can say landing zone are dynamic and grow as your enterprise adopts more cloud-based
workloads over time. So it's not a static thing. It it it is a scalable. So
deploy landing zone you must create an organization resource. So it's like you should have organization resource to
create it because you will have to follow all organization hierarchy and all that. So if you are using yourself
account then it will be difficult. create a billing account either online or invoiced. A landing zone spans
multiple areas and include different elements. So it's a combination of like suppose for example I want to build a
gaming platform online in a sense on cloud.
So what I will do is as an architect I will sit with other stakeholders like I will sit will what will be my front end.
front end will be mostly a web web front end so that uh users or gamers will come
on the web front end to enjoy the gaming services. Then there will be back end in
back end I will have some compute resources then databases will be there
and then connectivity sort of things like network security and all. So I I
can think of everything as like what will be needed for this complete gaming platform to be available on Google cloud
and there will be some connectivities toward on premises if you are having on premises also. So all those things you
need to keep in mind just I took an example of gaming platform but there you know like on cloud everything is
nowadays on cloud. So the following diagram shows a sample implementation of a landing zone. So we'll see a sample
implementation. It shows the infrastructure as a service use case with hybrid cloud and on-premise
connectivity and Google cloud. So it's a good reference because it covers both hybrid cloud and onremise connectivity.
So most of the times you will see such type of design in practical word. So how it will look like is
what sort of connectivity you will have. So as an organization it's not like you will have only one cloud provider. You
may have other cloud providers as well depend like most of the times you will see in organization for MS teams outlook
they already use Azure Microsoft Azure right so they will take some Azure like
Windows if you want to go via like Windows server Windows uh laptops online
VDIS you can say so I have seen like cloud desktops so they go toward Azure
some of the specific service they can choose AWS And then most of them most of the services suppose they need on Google
cloud. So they will choose Google cloud as well. So depending upon the need what is cheaper what is the most feasible
option company will evaluate all those things and they choose cloud provider. It's not like they will choose only a
single cloud provider they may choose multiple cloud provider at once as well. I've seen that. So now in this example
suppose this is a this is a organization overview right? So here what it says is
it has a onremise onremise application some compute and storage are there. Now
to connect the onremise with your VPC or Google cloud you use cloud interconnect.
So cloud interconnects are dedicated partner partners there are multiple way
in which you can use cloud interconnect. We'll see that later in this course. But for now, cloud interconnect is used to
connect your onremises with your cloud. On premises, other cloud can also be
connected. But for now, just consider considering this example. Your onremises
will have a direct connectivity to Google cloud using cloud because it's secure. You are not using any shared
media. You are connecting it directly using cloud interconnect. So it is highly secure and uh efficient as well
because high throughput a bandwidth link will be available here. So using cloud interconnect you have
connected your on-remise data center to Google cloud. Now
on onremise side you will have a edge router there will be a collocation facilities. collocation facilities in
the sense like suppose in India Google may have their collocation facilities in Mumbai and Delhi. So as an
enterprise I should have my edge router in their data centers to directly
connect the dedicated cloud integrate. Suppose I don't have my edge router in that
collocation collocation in the means where the Google as Google also has the presence and myself as an enterprise
also has the presence. If I can draw it
suppose this is my organization in Punjab let's say
and I want to connect to Google cloud so Google cloud will say what will be the nearest location to you can choose that
so I know that nearest location to me is Delhi okay so I choose Delhi as my
nearest location now what is the prerequis to correct If the interconnect
is between Punjab and Delhi, let's say this
is the case like this. Now here what will happen is here somewhere in Delhi
you will have a data center. Suppose this is a data center here somewhere in di you will have a
data center and this data center is a collocation facility. Collocation
facility means
so if you will search about Equinex like on Google if you search about Equinex it's a major infrastructure provider
Equinex is a global digital infrastructure company that provide collocation and interconnection services
enabling business to connect and integrate ate their infrastructure. So this is the one big name uh Equinex
which provide infrastructure services like collocation facilities. Collocation facilities means as an
enterprise it's not feasible for me to go everywhere procure the devices uh buy
the data center set up everything locate staffs and everything but using equinix
what you can do is you will just lease that particular rack
suppose in this data center I will enlarge it there is let let us now just
okay let me do like this so this is suppose this is equinx Okay,
Equinex. Now suppose in this Equinix data center, I know for sure uh Google will have have
his pres Google is a giant player, right? So he will has definitely his presence has as Google has its region in
Delhi. So he will definitely have a collocation facilities near Delhi. So
now it's my turn now to choose whether I to decide whether I have the collocation
facility there or not. If I directly have my routers here then no problem we
can directly create a interconnect but suppose if I don't have sometimes it will it will be the case
that because I I don't have any operating operating scenarios in Delhi so I don't have my edge devices there in
Delhi so what I can do is I can ask some partners service
providers will be there who already have their devices in this Delhi Equinex data center that will come as a partner
service interconnect and if you if you have your own devices in that data
center or you have leased it directly from the Equinix then it will be a direct interconnect
just for your reference like it will help you so just keep in mind like that
so this is the interconnect so why that interconnect you you we'll cover it in detail in some time but for now just
understand onremise will connect to Google cloud using interconnect then There will be a cloud router. First
thing which a interconnect will see is a cloud router because this on this cloud router only you will configure your BGP
sessions most of the times and your cloud router your on-remise router will be there and cloud router. So they will have a direct BGP neighborhip over that
BGP all the routing will take place. So you will have a cloud router then on
this cloud router only you will have a different leg of cloudVPN because for other cloud providers you may choose to
go via internet right you can also choose interconnect but for now let's say you'll you don't have that sensitive
data or if you have also cloudVPN HVPN are there which can secure data you can
use max over that so suppose I have one service like this compute and
database services with other cloud providers. So what I can do is I can think of a VPN solution between my GCP
cloud and other cloud provider. So here you can do like I have seen VPNs will be between AWS and GCP GCP and Azure. So
you can think of this because onremise data center to cloud high amount of data
will flow but from GCP to other cloud depending upon scenario it can be high amount of data or sometimes it won't be
just a application like where you have built a DR type in other cloud like we
have seen in arch types reference architectures yesterday. So just consider with other cloud provider I
have a VPN solution. So for that VPN solution what you can think of on the cloud router only you will have this
cloudVPN from cloud router because you will route the traffic the interested traffic to
toward this tunnel. So that's why cloud router is crucial here. So this type of
topology will be there then cloudnet you will use to for your private workload or
endpoints to communicate with the internet and vice versa. Now for data analytic you will have some
data flow which we have seen extract transform and load pquy you will have firewall rules you will have then
application one service project workload compute engine workload two cloud storage workload cluster GKE so this is
a sample like you will have a prod project you will have a dev project and then you will have a testing project and
then you will have some observability scopes like moni monitoring VPC flow logs firewall rule logging cloud Audit
logging whatever actions admin takes will be covered under audit loggings. Then you will have some identity cloud
identity IM. So Google workspace user or any other federated users. If you are
not using workspace so you have to federate your
existing identity provider like octaslure ID.
So you will federate that. Then you will have some DNS zones. So all combination
of all these is a landing zone. So now you may have some idea like what is
landing zone. So landing zone is when a business want to launch its products or
its application on cloud then he think of whatever interfaces he will need,
what sort of products he need, what cloud services he need. So he decide everything and creates a design. Right?
So this design is nothing but a landing zone design. The example architecture in the present diagram shows a Google cloud
landing zone. Okay, that include the following Google cloud services and future. So we already covered that. So
let's go to key areas to be discussed. What is a Google cloud landing zone? We have
seen when to build a landing zone. Okay. So what is a Google cloud landing zone? We know now. Now let's see when to when
to build a landing zone. So why why it is necessary and when it is like yeah
now we need to build a landing zone. So we recommend that you build a landing zone before you deploy your first
enterprise workload on Google cloud. So it says enterprise workload. So whenever your company's or enterprise environment
workload is migrating to cloud or you are planning to host your services on cloud. It's a recommendation for from
Google that you build a landing zone. And I have seen that companies use this very strictly like landing zone design
is must if you are planning your solutions on cloud because a landing zone provide the following a foundation
that designs to be secured. So you create a foundation which is secured by
design and this is that security first approach you are following the network for enterprise workload. you create a
complete network right here we can see we have um considered everything like
how onremise will connect to Google cloud how other cloud provider will connect to Google cloud how identities
will be managed how logging observability will be managed how I will separate different environments like
broad dev and testing so everything we have considered the network for
enterprise workload the tools that you required to govern your internal cost distribution right so Govern means
monitoring and all everything. So you govern like how your cost is
how the services you have created is going to cost you. So you can manage everything. However, because a landing
zone is modular, your first iteration of modular means it won't remain the same.
The first iteration of a landing zone is often not your final version. Definitely because whatever you can think of uh
like I can think of like how how is my business perspective in the last 5 years and how should how it should become in
next 5 years. So all these things you can consider but it's it's not like never exact like what is the actual
future version it's not every time final right? So that's why it says landing
zone is a modular. Your first iteration of landing zone is often not your final version. Therefore, we recommend that you design a landing zone with
scalability and growth in mind. So, always design a landing zone which can scale and as your business grow, it
should accommodate all your requirements. For example, if your first workload does not require access to
on-remise network resource, you could build connectivity to your on-remise environment later. Okay? So, you should
keep scope for that. And depending on your organization and the type of workload that you plan to
run on Google cloud, some workload might have very different requirement. For example, some workload might have unique
scalability or compliance requirement definitely. So every workload won't
follow a same approach, right? Some will suppose some workloads are related to healthcare. So it will have its own
compliance requirement and scalability like how fast that business area is
growing. Right? So if each workload is different in this case you might require more than one landing zone for your organization one landing zone to host
most of the workload and a separate landing zone to host the unique workloads. So if you think that yes
certain workloads are unique in sense of compliance or scalability
does not follow the general approach for most of your workloads. So what you can do is you can separate them in a
different landing zone. It's not like a organization will have only a single landing zone. They can have multiple landing zone depending upon the
workloads which they are going to build on cloud. So this is clear whenever somebody ask you in interview something.
So organization can have multiple landing zone depending upon the use cases and workload they have. You can
share some elements such as identities, billing and the organization resource across your landing zone. So you can
share these things across your landing zones also like identities definitely the users identities you can share
between landing zones billing suppose you want to have a common billing and
you want to share across your lending zone you can do that and the organization resource across your landing zones however other elements
such as the network setup deployment mechanism and folder level policies might vary so these things can vary
because you create most of the time landing zone at folder level folder Everyone
element of a landing zone. Landing zone require you to design the following core element. Identity provisioning as I said
either you go with workspace identity Google workspace or you federate or you
federate in the sense you take other identities like Azure ID SL
other identity provider use resource hierarchy network and security control. So most of the things if you focus on
these areas these are all on infraside identity resource network
security. So for infrastructure engineer for engineers like us landing zone creation
will become on our way and that's why it's very important to note that we should learn this how to create a
landing zone what are the criterias involved so that in interviews or in actual world scenario it will be really
helpful. So I think we know now when to build a landing zone elements of a landing zone.
So elements of a landing zone we know now these are the critical elements a best practices for designing and
deploying land. Let's see that best practices. So what Google says is build a team. So first of all whenever you are
creating a landing zone decide which team will work for particular landing zone like bring together a team that
include people from multiple technical functions across the organization. The team must include people who can build all landing zone element including
security, identity, network and operations. So now this is clear like uh a one person cannot design a landing
zone because there are multiple elements like security is the responsibility of
security engineers then identity IM persons will come network engineers will come then operations depends on it's a
very huge uh domain operations there will be database operation there will cloud reliability compute storage so
you'll have to build a team bring all domain
expertises together identified a cloud practitioner who understand Google cloud to lead the team. So the manager who is
managing the team he should be at least certified with Google cloud practitioner certification so that he know how to
build a lead a cloud team. Your team should include member who manage the project and track achievements and
member who collaborate with application or business owners. So this is
managerial thing but yeah if you are designing a landing zone you should keep in mind like it's a team work it's not
like a single person is responsible for all aspects in the landing zone. Apply project management to your landing zone
deployment. So this is one thing can take multiple weeks. So project
management is essential. It's not a one day job. You need to make sure because you are designing a modular approach
which can fit future requirements also. So you will have to sit you will have to
go to multiple meetings you have to think of what what integrations what set of what sort
of services which level of security everything you have to decide first. So that's why it's can take multiple weeks.
So project management is essential to track the achievements to track the growth how much work we have done. So
these things all like as usual project management or doing any task in
enterprise you have to follow that follow technical best practices. So here Google cloud setup
enterprise foundation blueprint then Google well architected framework we have already seen that terapform
blueprint like how you can help how you can take help of terapform to build your landing zone because landing zone you
can create with the help of terapform as well. So we see that later just for understanding we are just seeing these
things. Identify resources to help implement your landing zone. So let's see
uh the best practices for designing and deploying landing zone. We have seen now decide how to onboard identities to
Google cloud. So what I'm doing is we'll just focus on the things which are more
like uh important to us as a security engineer. We have seen like most of the things here are related to project
management and all. So it's this document is for all. So it's not like uh
it's dedicated to security or any other domain. So it's for all. So we should
choose what we have to study to make most of it. That's why I have
highlighted this point here. Whenever you are referring this document only focus most of the times if you are from
security professional domain so focus on this area so that it will help you while
designing your landing zone or working with cloud. So decide identity onboarding. So this is something which
can come in our approach. So let's see how we decide how to onboard identities to Google cloud. So
option one is use Google as your primary source of for identity.
Now suppose you are a new organization. You don't have any existing IDP. IDP means identity provider where you
onboard your user, set their password, set user policies, two factor authentication everything. So if you
don't have such then use this strategy when the following is true. Your organization already has user identities
provisioned in in Google Workspace. Now suppose you use
Google Workspace as your primary identity provider. Then this approach is good for you. You can go with Google as
your primary source of identity. No federation. No federation means I am not taking any other identity provider
integration. So it's purely Google Workspace. It says cloud identity or Google Workspace. You create cloud
identity in Google workspace only for at least Google. If for other providers it's different.
your organization does not have an existing IDP as I said it's you don't have any existing IDP you started your
business fresh and you want to onboard your users definitely you can choose Google because
Google will provide you more efficient way to manage users because you are using Google cloud for your hostings and
if you onboard your user on workspace you will get more more flexibility your organization has an existing IP but
want to but want to start quickly with a small subset of users and federate identities later. There will be a case
like you already have a existing IDP IDP but for the resources which you are trying to create on Google cloud for
those resource you don't want to onboard all users which are there in existing IDP suppose you are using Microsoft AD
Azure AD Microsoft AD you are using and you thought to deploy your workload on
Google cloud so what will happen is depending upon the extent how big is
your deployment on cloud you will thing if suppose your deployment is not that big and you want only few particular
experts to work on those deployment for now then what you can do is you can onboard those user directly into the
Google workspace because it won't be that tough right because there are only limited set of users and later you can
federate the existing IDP so in these three scenarios you can use Google as
your primary source for identities now second option is use federation with an external identity provider. So if you
remember in PCSC we have taken the workforce identity federation where we have onboarded users on octa and we have
given the privileges in octa portal only and why via single sign on we are
logging into the google cloud. So we have not uh created our users in
workspace we have created it in octa and from octa only we are managing our google resources. So this is called as a
federation. So use federation with an external identity provider. So you are not using
internal Google owned identity provider like workspace or cloud identity. Instead you are using a external
identity provider. So when to use this strategy? You have an existing IDP such
as active directory, Azure ID, watchlog, octa as we have tested or ping identity.
So there will be others also but these are more famous identity providers. So
if you already have subscription or your users are onboarded to one of these identity provider then you can
definitely use federation and you we know we know already how to create federation in Google cloud. We have done
it in PCSC. We may we may repeat it in PCA but we have if you want to refer you can
refer the PCSC federation chapter. So you want employees to use their existing
identity and credentials to sign into Google cloud like like octa in octa we have onboarded a user we have given some
credentials to that user and we don't want the user to change his credentials to login into the Google cloud in that
case you can use federation and the other Google services such as Google ads
and Google marketing platform for everything he can use his own credentials so this is the two
options which you have while deciding identity onboarding. Identity onboarding
in the sense user onboarding. So every user on cloud will have a unique identity.
Now last point I have mentioned is decide a resource hierarchy for your Google cloud landing zone. So this is
also crucial. So how to decide it? So let's focus on the major area. So it
will we have already covered this in for asset cloud engineer only. So I'm just going through it. So you'll have your
organization as your root node. At top you will have your organization. Then level one will be some folders. Folder
A, folder B. In folder A you may have subfolder like folder A1 and folder B
will have subfolder folder B1 B2. Then in in folder A1 you have project A 1.1,
project A 1.2, 2 B1 same B1 B1.1 B2.1
here and you will have different folder folder C directly behind organization
folder C the project and inside project you will have resources level N so it
can be a any level you can create more project so it depends upon you but it will make complex so I have seen like
multiple times three folders will be there folder subfolder and then subfolder
And depending upon what subsidiaries, what business units
you have, you name the folders. Like your folder A will be sales, folder B will be finance, something like that.
Then under sales, there will be contractors, there will be internals, onroll users. So like it depends there
are multiple business cases for that.
Now I have highlighted some more network and security related considerations. So
decide the network design for your Google cloud landing zone. So it's really helpful for us. So network design
you see here. So design decide network design.
So we just see here and decide and implement your Google or landing
zone network design. Okay. So how to decide like what sort of
network placement you will do. So there will be multiple. So let's go
to design decision point for design network. This will help you to start it.
Now you are starting from scratch suppose. So do you require layer server inspection using network compliance
between different workload in Google cloud. So
sometimes your organization criteria will be that each workload in Google
cloud if they want to communicate between them you want a layer 7
inspection layer 7 inspection to happen like so what you will do is you will place a
network appliance any network appliance which is capable of doing layer 7 inspection like web application firewall
or any next generation firewall are capable of doing a layer inspection. So what you can do is you can think of is
your design require this thing. Suppose the answer is yes. Yeah, we need a layer
level inspection whenever two workloads talk to each other. Then use hub and spoke with appliances. Now we'll see in
some time what is this? Suppose our answer is no.
Can your workload communicate using private endpoints in a service producer and consumer model? So if you remember
cloud ids intrusion detection system. So that was the example of service producer
and consumer model. So service producer will be your ideas and we become a
consumer and we take help of service connect to connect with the Google cloud
or third party offerings like cloud ideas is a Google cloud offering. So if answer is yes use service exposure
through private service connect right we have done this lab in PCSC we may repeat it again we more
to think it of more as a design perspective so if your answer is yes you want to use a service producer and
consumer model go with private service connect if no then do you want to centrally administer firewall and
routing you want a central administration like from a single project you will manage this all then
Yes, if answer is yes, use shared VPC for each environment like you will create a hub project and in that hub
project you create all networks firewall rules and just you share the hub project
with the host project so that application developers can do their hostings. If the answer is no, use hub
and spoke without appliances. If you don't want to centrally administer firewall and routing, then use hub and
spoke without appliances. So there are two scenarios, use hub and spoke with appliance and use hub and spoke without
appliance. So let's focus on this because shared VPC we already know how to share resources but we see that also
and private service connect is something example of cloud ideas if you go to PCS you will have more clear understanding.
So let's see first of all
first of all we see this because hub and spoke to support topology with centralized appliance this one the first
one hub and spoke with appliance where we want a layer inspection using network appliance between different workloads in
Google cloud so how it look like if you click here it will directly land you to a diagram so in this diagram if you see
this onremise and cloud interconnect we connected to cloud router. Then we have this hub VPC prod and workload one spoke
VPC broad. Okay. So you have created a hub project. In that hub project you
have uh all routing and infra related network secure firewall controls and
then your spoke project deals with workload directly workload. They run workload hostings whatever they are
intended to and we do a VPC network pairing between hub and spoke. So you
may see in enterprise they use this type of topology. Now suppose
if something is coming from cloud router and going to my internal load balancer I want to monitor those using a layer 7
appliance. So here what you do is you create a multi-nick virtual appliance.
So suppose you created a firewall next generation firewall. So that will act as a multi-nick virtual appliance. So anything coming from this transit VPC.
So you create a transit VPC where you just hold or place the devices which
communicate to external world like I have placed here Google have placed here cloud router which deals with your cloud
interconnect and this cloud router is also dealing with another cloud internet for your another location. So whatever
the devices router netting you place it here and you make sure that you add
extra layer of defense here. So like from this transit VPC to your hub broad hub project if anything is going you
always monitor using layer server inspection. So this type of approach is called as hub and spoke topology with
centralized appliances. Right. So three things here to note.
Whenever there will be a hybrid connection from on-remise to cloud you create a transit VPC. So VPC you can
create in multiple VPCs. Right. So first three VPC you create here. You create a transit VPC. You place all the services
which will be needed to deal with hybrid connection in this transit VPC. Then you
create a hub project. In hub project you configure networks, you can configure firewall rules like this. And in spoke
project you deploy your workloads like compute, database, storage. You deploy here. So using this approach you make
sure that your actual workloads are safe, right? they are having two layer
of security. So first is first attacker suppose the attacker is there he passed
somehow the cloud interconnect which is very unlikely because this cloud interconnect is directly connected to your onromise. Suppose there is a
insider inside intruder which we say like somebody has got access to your onremise
somehow he reached till cloud router then this layer inspection will block it right. So again you will have in this
hub project you will have some firewall rules which will deal with this internal collection. So this is a very secure
design. So hub and spoke topology with centralized appliance. So designing decide network design. So this is one
another. Let's see. So this we covered use hub and spoke with appliances. So do you require layer
seal inspection? So whenever you see a requirement or a case study
which says customer has a requirement to do a layer 7 inspection between the workloads inside the cloud quickly you
it should come into your mind that it's a hub and spoke with appliances some
layer 7 appliances. Now if it says no then if your workloads are capable of
doing private endpoints then you can use private service connect which is a cloud id example is a cloud id then it comes
to do you want to centrally administer firewall routing use shared VPC for that if no then use het spoke without
appliance let's see h spoke topology without appliance so
here the same onremise location here there won't be a transit VPC because you are not using a appliance between
transit and hub project. So what you can do is you are directly connecting your on-premise to hub prod
and then using VPC network pairing we are connecting to spoke. So no transit VPC in this case and no appliance
doing any layer 7 inspection. So it's a simple design with respect to compliance
in between appliance in between sorry. So this this becomes
the hub and spoke topology without appliance. So left over is this one.
So I'm doing it wrong way. So what you can do is you can open it like this shared VPC in
you will have always this page where this diagram is there. Now shared VPC network for each
environment. So here the design will look like what you will do is you will create a cloud interconnect. You will
create a host project in which cloud router will be there. Firewall rules you will create and then
shared VPC broad and shared VPC. So you just shared your VPC network right. So
this VPC network is being shared with all application one application two. So
you're just sharing your VPC network. Normal VPC sharing we do. So it's not any layered approach. So if you study
it, we recommend this network design for most use cases. Google recommend it. This design uses separate shared VPC
network for each deployment environment that you have in Google cloud. So depending upon the environment like for
you create one VPC and you shared it across your all broad workload. For dev
you create a shared VPC and you share it across all your dev workloads right. So
in this way you can create this. So we now know all these three type of topology. One is use hub and spoke with
appliances. It will come in picture whenever you require a layer cell inspection using network appliance
between different workload in Google cloud. If this is a requirement you go with that. If no if our workload
communicate using private endpoints in a service producer and consumer model we
ex service exposure through private service connect. So just like uh
for now don't think much about this what I will do is I will create a lab on this one so that we understand it in very
well. So now do you want to centrally administer firewall and routing?
Centrally administered firewall and routing means suppose I created a VPC a hub a VPC project a complete sorry a
VPC network I have created. So definitely on that VPC network I can do
a routing I can create firewall rules and now suppose I shared this VPC to four projects.
So those four projects won't think of more about managing routing firewall
rules because the owner like myself in this case which I have created
this VPC like take the example here
VPC now suppose I have created this VPC etc.
So there there will be host project and service project. So let's see host
project VPC. So suppose this I created I I go to a project and I create a VPC
network there. As soon as you create a VPC network and you share it. So what you will do is
you will share it to multiple projects. Right?
So in this case I am sharing it to three different projects.
Okay. So project one
not VPC let's use this. So this is also VPC
right? So this week no not VC I need project.
Uh-huh. Anything like this one.
Let's say this normal.
So this is my project one.
P1 is project one. P2 is project two and P2 is so these
three become service projects. Right. If I go to documentation, it says
host project. I expand it. You see
it says host project and service project. So
I will name it service
service P1 service P2.
and service P3. We have already done lab on this but
just I'm recalling things. So in shared VPC what we do is we in this master
project or host project what we do we create a VPC network and we share it with these three different projects. So
as soon as you share your VPC network with three different project you become a host project and wherever you have
shared your network with become service project right. So this is the approach
of shared VPC in which a host project shares it network with service project. Now what is the benefit of doing it is
as where wherever you create VPC network you do routing here routing decisions
here right you do firewall rule creation here
and this is more most recommended way Google says like how to deal with your
service uh landings on design with respect to network. So here the host project suppose and I
give the permission of network administrator to this host project to network team. So they easily they can go
create routing create firewall rules because they are expert in that domain right and for this service project we
give access to only developers who deal with workloads right so they don't need to worry about doing routing they don't
need to worry about doing firewall rule creation so that's why it's a recommended approach that's what I
wanted to show now if you read this statement we recommend this network design for
most use cases this design uses separate shared VPC network for each deployment environment that you have between Google cloud development, testing and
production. This design lets you centrally manage network resources in a common network and provides network
isolation between the different environments. Right? Centrally you can manage and isolation is also there
because whatever network I have shared with P1 is not shared with P2. Right? So
suppose P1 is prod. So I shared only prod subnet with it, dev subet with it and testing subnet with it. So they
don't interfere with each other. I unless you create a direct pairing between them they cannot communicate
with two service project cannot communicate with each other that's the benefit so that's enough I think for
deciding network design you see have we have seen three type of network design uh hub and spoke with appliance hub and
spoke without appliance and shared VPC and the last one which is private
service connect we hold it for now we'll do a lab and we study it in a much
detail for now if you want to go more deep into the private service connect please refer IDS uh lab which we did in
TCSC. Now implement your Google cloud landings or network design. So it is more toward
implementing whatever we have discussed in designing and deciding which type if you decided
one of them. Suppose you decided one of them. Now I decided to use suppose
I decided to use uh shared VPC. Okay. So there are four shared VPC network for
each environment. Hub and spoke with centralized hub and spoke without appliances. Expose services in a
consumer provider model with private service connect for example cloud ids. Okay. So now suppose I have decided this
shared VPC for now. So shared VPC network for each environment. So how to
implement that? We already implemented it. So but there are some best practices. Limit external access by
using anation policy. Restrict protocol forwarding based on type of IP address.
Define allowed external IPs for VM instances. So what
things you can do to make sure that your network design is secure. So what all those recommendations will be disable
default network creation. So in organization policy say no default
network connection network creation. So how it will help is now suppose
I open my console. Hold on.
Oh, I'm into this project PCSA demo. PCA demo is shut down and schedule close. Okay, let's choose another project.
My first project. Yeah, this one. And if I go to VPC network
and if I go to this, there is already default network. When I
create a VPC network, I get a option to select C subnet creation mode custom or
automatic. So in automatic you get all these 42 region submit. So this is a waste of resources, right? Why I should
create all resources in all available region of Google, right? So that's why you should disable these things. So
these are some key points which you should refer. Disable default network creation, design firewall rules. So
implement least privilege like block all traffic by default and only allow the
specific traffic you need. So by default if you go to a firewall rule here in
firewall rules if you create a VPC network it will have deny all ingress only right. So all
ingress means anything coming to GCP will be denied by default but allow all
eress all external communication is by default allowed which can also posess a risk. Correct? Now if you understand
this this is our firewall right this is our GCP GCP so let's say GCP environment
anything going outside
will become egress and anything coming in will become
ingress.
So this become ingress.
Now what default? What says deny all ingress? So
deny. There's no sign cross.
Yeah, this one. This looks good. It's very big. Let make it small. So GCP says
by default,
it's very tricky with diagrams. Yeah. So by default it will deny all ingress and
it will allow
Yes. Tick. Hello.
Okay, it's not there. But yeah, ingress is by default dei denied but egress is
allowed. Now if you are designing a secure landing zone, why you will allow all egress communication? So what you
can do is you can deny this one as well because Google by
default is not denying that. So what we can do is we can deny it so
that it becomes a list privilege. So nobody is having by
default any allow rules. Right? So whatever access is needed we specifically allow test services only.
So it says that implement list privilege also referred to as micro segmentation principle. Block all traffic by default
and only allow the specific traffic you need. This include limit the real rules to the only protocol and ports you need
for each workload. Enable firewall rule logging for visibility. Firewall rule logging is must otherwise it will be
very difficult uh like which source and destination communicated on which port. So there are some guidelines
to use firewall rule priority in GCP. uh lower the priority higher the chances
of rule getting evaluated first. So lower priority is the winner here. So if you create two rule,
so what how I can explain is that in this way now you create a two rule suppose
while troubleshooting also it will help. Suppose I created a rule a hello allow
rule with priority
1,000. I created a a law rule which says suppose in eress direction only a law
rule with priority 1,00 and I created a deny rule
deny rule with priority suppose 500. So what will happen is it will always
preer the lowest priority. So this will become a winner in this case right? So this this will become a winner and this
rule won't get evaluated. So while designing firewall rules you need to make sure that allow rule should have a
lower priority than a deny rule for the same source and destination. Otherwise it will every time will get denied
because of the lower priority. Right? So ideal scenario should be a deny rule should be have more priority. So
something like that 5,000. So in this case it will get denied and this rule
will get allowed in grid. Okay something like that just revision we we already
know all these things. So we just doing a revision so that's why I'm not focusing more configuring hierarchal
highal policies. So identity aware proxy wherever possible use identity aware proxy don't do a direct SSH or allow
direct SSH from external to your workloads. So if you use a identity aware proxy the source will be this
Google reserve sources for AP. So the hit you will see on workload will be
from this source IP is not from the actual external IP from the internet. So and also with AP you get a feature or we
get an option to assign IM. So the end user identity must be
validated before he can do a SSH and if he has the access of doing SSH then only he can do otherwise he want to health
checks for cloud load balancing for this you can create a firewall rule like for
identity proxy as we are under firewall section it says that you have to allow this source on port 22 and for 3389 if
you want to do RDP and then for health check these will be the sources from GCP on port 80 and 44 4 three. So these two
ranges you need to allow. So these are some things configure your shared VPC environment. So this is not useful for
now at least. So we know now that how to implement
your Google cloud landings on network design. First of all you have to decide there are four parameters. We have seen out of four parameters. Let's say I have
decided to go with shared VPC. Then if you want to go with shared VPC here
Google has given the network design options for all those you
can go through them. So depending upon the scenario I will recommend read please read all these to have a better
understanding. Now decide security let's quickly see that.
So these are few parameters how to limit persistence credentials for service account. So don't entertain users
creating service account keys because if this those keys are getting compromised it will be huge risk to your
environment. How to mitigate data expiltration through Google APIs. So Google APIs are a way in which
developers can directly connect to the API using their choice of code and as
sometimes there will be user identities or credentials if something is stolen that will be a risk. So how to limit
that we we must study and we are just setting our targets for this course. So don't worry about why I'm not getting
into deep of that. So let's just focus on what we need to do and later throughout this course we do all those
things. How to continuously monitor for insecure configuration and threats. So
create a layer 7 firewall policy using cloud armor and continuously monitor those. How to centrally aggregate
necessary logs. We have seen how to create log sync and forward logs from different projects to a folder or
different project like collect the logs from four projects and forward it to a
one centrally managed project where you can do the analysis. So that you can do using creating a log sync how to meet
compliance requirement for encryption at rest right. So how what sort of things
we need to do to meet the compliance encry requirement for encryption? Suppose you are encrypting a disk and
now inside that disk some some sensitive information is there.
Now depending upon the different compliance how to make sure that whatever the encryption you have done is in sync with compliance and you won't
get any compliance issues. Same way with how to meet compliance requirement for encryption in transit. So we'll see that
also which additional controls are necessary for managing cloud provider cloud service provider access. to access
mean this comes with uh how to access your cloud service provider. So that interconnect and all we have to see. So
the purpose of showing all this is now you know where you have to which document you have to follow whenever you
are going to design a secure network firewall technologies.
So whenever you want to design a secure secure infrastructure or workload on Google cloud what step you need to
follow? We already discussed all those. No, it's all about theory. Now what next
part of this course will become is now we start following those approach. So we
just make oursel familiar with that approach. From the last two days we are studying all theory. Now one by one what
we'll do is we'll start learning each and every technologies which are related
to security. So let's see
first thing will be Google cloud connectivity. So I thought to start with Google cloud connectivity because extend
onremise and other cloud network to Google cloud with highly available low latency connection through cloud VPN or
dedicated partner or cross cloud interconnect. So these are all the
options available to connect to your Google cloud. So Google cloud provide cloudvpn
or dedicated dedicated means pointto-point partner means you are taking someone
else infrastructure like service providers or crosscloud means you are building a connection with different
cloud provider like AWS and Azure. So if you are like if you have a
requirement to build a high bandwidth dedicated connectivity. Now suppose your organization says no it should be a high
bandwidth and it should be a dedicated connectivity. So what sort of options are available? Enable high available low
latency and high throughput dedicated connection side to side between your on-premise location with cross-sight
interconnect. Okay. From your onremise to Google cloud with cloud interconnect.
So cloud interconnect will be your choice or between Google cloud and other cloud provider with cross cloud
interconnect. This can be done with other cloud providers as well using cross cloud internet and here you
procure a dedicated D line and connect with your onremise as well as other
cloud provider. Now flexible lowc cost VPN. If you are if you want a flexible and
low cost solution then you can go with VPNs for low volume data but it should be of low volume data. Here you have
seen high throughput high bandwidth right high throughput. So depends if you are having a high bandwidth high
throughput requirement you have to go with cloud interconnect. If you want to go with flexible lowc cost VPN there is
a drawback of having a low volume data only. CloudVPN offers a lowc cost option that delivers 1.5 to 3Gbps per tunnel
over an encrypted public internet connection. You don't need to procure a lease line dedicated. You can use public
internet. Cloud VPN flexible routing options allows you to use static or dynamic routing to connect to different
VPN gateways. Okay. So this is one of the option. Third option is service
centric connectivity. So this is again deal with priv private service connect where you connect with different
software as a service provided by Google or customer managed services like you
want to connect to your onremise using your onremise private IP then you can
use private service connect we see in detail about that also then encrypted dedicated connection enable encrypted
access to your VPC from your on-premise environment through HAVPN so this is the
latest VPN technology High availability weapon where you will create two tunnels and as it says high availability so you
will get the maximum uptime here over cloud interconnect. So you procure a cloud interconnect line and over that
line you write a IPSec havpn or max sec on cloud interconnect right. So either
you write havpn or max sec to secure encrypt your data in transit the traffic
differentiation priation. There is new feature which says ensure prioritization of your mission critical application traffic with an industry first
application awareness on cloud interconnect. So there is this new future application industry first
application awareness on cloud internet. Now suppose on cloud internet or interconnect let me draw this.
This is also nice to know suppose you have a
this is a suppose interconnect interconnect the dedicated lease line you see we'll expand it
okay let it be now one end is your onremise
one is end is your cloud okay now there will be different types of data flowing
so let's list in terms of criticality There will be just basic critical,
highly critical, right? Then high, medium
and low. Now suppose for example depending upon the data suppose
one is your business data. So this that will be tagged as a critical one data is related to your appliance health check
and all it will become high. Then medium will be something which flows as a
uh social media something let's say low is very low this you can categorize this
type of now there is an option here on interconnect that you can set the
priorities of a data you can create a vlance and you can set the priority like
if this is flowing through that van or something there are other method also so if you tag a data with critical and
suppose you are having a 5G Gbps link during peak covers what it will do is this interconnect will prioritize
critical data first after that it will prioritize high then medium at last low
so this type of smart technology or intelligence is now available with interconnect so that's why it says
industry first application awareness and cloud interconnect so which application is
critical or high medium or low so it will decide that you'll have to set some parameters and then it will
allow the mission critical data first. Now I have added this link here.
Whatever we have discussed everything is documented here. There are ice video recordings as well. Now if you go like
cross- site interconnect, cloud interconnect, crosscloud interconnect, what is cloud VPN,
private service connect over interconnect. So the one thing is we cannot create interconnect because we
don't have such setup. So whatever possible for us to do lab we'll do for
others we just go through theory as we have done too much theory that's why I'm not going deep into that let's directly
jump into the lab of cloudVPN and then we see the later theories.
So for just your information like these are the connectivity options available
when you decide to connect your Google cross Google cloud to onremise environment as well as other cloud
providers and vice versa. So these are all connectivity options available
depending upon the use case like if you need high bandwidth dedicated connectivity we have all these options which are highlighted. If you need
flexible low cost cloud VPN is there. Servicecentric connectivity you can go
with private service connect encrypted dedicated connection go with HAV VPN IP sec over cloud interconnect or max sec.
So it's like you first need to procure this and over that you write a IPCVPN and max sec
then traffic differentiation and prioritation mission critical data differentiation is now available over
interconnect so that it can decide which traffic it needs to allow first or pass first during peak loads
so that's it let's start classic VPN
so first of all cloudVPN securely extend your PR network to virtual private clot network through an
IP sec VPN connection. The VPN connection encrypt traffic traveling between the networks. So diagram here I
open this. This is the diagram. So now suppose most
of the times I will have this type of setup. I will have my cloud. I will have my on-remise environment. So I don't have any onremise environment. So I will
simulate one of the VPC as my on-romise and I will add all private IDs there. So between these two environments suppose I
want to send traffic. This VM wants to communicate with this VMU use case. Now
I want the communication between these two VMs to be fully secure because I will use public internet between there
is a public internet here and I know that
traffic flowing through public internet is vulnerable to attacks. So that's why I will use a VPN tunnel. So whatever
traffic goes will go within this tunnel. So Google cloud offers two types of VPN
gateways. HAVPN and classicVPN. So there are two types of VPN. HAVPN is there
which is high highly available high available VPN and another one is classic VPN. So topic for today is classic VPN.
All cloudVPN gateways created before the introduction of HAVPN are considered classic VPN gateways. So HAVPN is a new
technology. So we'll first learn classicVPN and then we will go to the HA. In contrast to HAVPN, classic VPN
gateways have a single interface. In HA, you will have two interface. That's why it's a highly available. If one interface goes down all also your
traffic will still flow through the secondary interface. But in classic VPN which we'll discuss today, we have only
single interface and support tunnel that use static routing. Our
classic VPN support static routing policy based or route based. So both is
supported here. This is also a good type of VPN for small loads as we have seen here. So we are discussing this this
point flexible low cost VPN. Okay. So
classic VPN gateways provide an SLA of 99.9 service availability which is quite good. Classic VPN gateways don't support
IPv6. So the classic VPN which we are discussing today don't support IPv6. Suppose in case study you get a
requirement. So you need to think of like what is the requirement business
requirement there if say if they say that high availability is not critical for them or they just need to transfer
1.5 to 3 Gbps of data and cost is also a major factor for them then you should be
quickly identifying this flexible lowc cost VPN which is a cloud VPN and we
present them a solution of classicVPN not HVPN because HVPN we write over most
of times interconnects but that we can also do over internet I will show you
that in the next lab for today let's focus more on classicVPN which is a single interface single point of failure
VPN which can provide a throughput of 1.5 to 3Gbps
okay so let's create VPN create a
virtual private cloud named cloud to simulate your cloud network and a VPC named onremise to simulate a external
environment Now to do before that there is a kota restriction here. I will
show you.
Let me open cloud console in one project. You cannot create both
the VPN gateway. So this VPN gateway and this VPN gateway in free trial I cannot
create because there is a quarter restriction on in use IP addresses. So that's why what I will do is I will
create this cloud VPC in one project and onremise VPC in another project. So
let's go to no organization because I will create I have already have these two project PCL
labs and test labs. Let's draw it quickly so that we are not confused.
So I will create cloud VPC in
PCA labs. I'm just writing it here so that we are sure and onremise VPC in
test labs project. Okay. So I have PCA labs and test lab.
Okay. So cloud VPC will be in PCL lab and onremise VPC will be in test lab.
Okay. So one by one we start with cloud VPC. So cloud VPC will be in PCL. So
let's select PCL. I'm into the PC lab and let's go to
VPC network to create a VPC. I have given all commands here
G-Cloud command and in here I will show you using gy but to save time you can
always follow G-Cloud command here we know about different things so that's why I'm following
approach like what options are available when you are configuring this so name so
first of all what name you want to give to this so as this is a cloud project so I will give it as a cloud gateway
and uh not cloud gateway one this is a VPC we are creating so just name it cloud and uh subnet you can take help
from this commands so I have given like cloud east is the subnet name
any name you can give region let's pick for cloud I am picking what I have
picked it here US east let's pick the same US east one for cloud
And what IP you want to assign to your cloud VPC I want to assign this 10
corporate subnet we can say done space is there okay
let's create and I will open
one more tab or let's open it in duplicate tab
hide floating s and in this duplicate tab I will open test lab because here we
will simulate onremise network. Let's create a VPC. All commands are given here. G-Cloud
compute network create onrem. So this command is to create a VPC network called onrem and subnet mo is custom. We
don't want a automatic subnets. If you create automatic all 42 regions subnet
will get created which is a waste of resource right. So that's why we create a custom and then subnet in subnet
create I have given onprem central one because I will create in a US central
one. So that's why name is that okay region is
US where is US yeah US central one and IP
for address for on-prem I want to assign this private address which is which represent
onremise. Okay, let's create.
So cloud network is created with one subnet. If I open this,
so subnet is this, right? 10 0 1 0. So this is my corporate network 010.
Let me update the diagram. So
uh so this this is my corporate network. Let's
and here is my onremise network. Onromise network
is let's see once it is created. So it's in test lab onremise
subnet and this is the onromise subnet 192 168 1024.
Okay. So now it's clear corporate network is 10 series and onremise network is 192. Now from this subnet to
this without these are two different projects right of
these two different projects of no organization it's not even a part of organization still we will establish a
connectivity between the VMs of these two project using cloudvpn.
So I have created what we are created is we created a VPC and a subnet but run
the following to enable SSH and ICMP because you will need a secure shell to communicate with VMs during load
testing. So we need SSH access to VM. It's a custom VPC. So we have to allow this ingress will be denied by default
and then we open this ports right for testing. So we do some testing. So
that's why we are opening this 5,0001 ports. So either you can use
G-Cloud or you can use console. So I will use console to
quickly create in PCL labs which deals with cloud. So I create a firewall rule
and I will name it cloud firewall rule. No rule is no mention. So cloud firewall
just mention cloud firewall and in this cloud firewall the network will be cloud
ingress because erress is by default allowed. So targets all instance in the
network source any source or you can give the VPN source 192 series IP but
I'm giving any and TCP port 20 should be allowed 501 test UDP
51 again to test and I need ICMP also because I will initiate a ICMP ping from
my VMs create this rule similarly we create rule at onremise
side also Test lab is our onremise. So let's create a firewall rule.
on premise firewall
here the network will be on prem and operation will be ingress targets
will be all instance in the network is applicable to all source any you can give corporate address also but I'm
giving any TCP 22 same as we given there UDP as well as
501 1 ICMP.
Okay, firewall rule is created. Cloud firewall is created in PCL apps which is my cloud
project. Or let me do one thing. Let me manage resource.
I can rename them.
Test lab is on premise.
Save. Okay. Test lab is onremise
and uh so here is will be the PCL apps. PCL
apps will be cloud. So it make more sense now. So here
should reflect. I do a refresh. uh
onremise. Okay. And here I navigate to VPC network
cloud. PCA will become cloud. No issues. Yeah. So cloud. So one project is cloud, one
is on premise. So don't don't get confused. Whatever the configuration needed on cloud side, we'll do in cloud
project and whatever configuration is needed in on-remise side, we do on onremise project. So to make it clear so
now let's do what is left. So what we have done till now is let me note all
things in a notepad not needed notepad we can follow our
this. So create the cloud VPC, create a VPC, alloc common types of traffic,
firewall rule, create a subnet. We did all three steps. Now let's move forward.
Create task two, create the on-prem VPC. We created that also. Task three, create
VPN gateways. Now it's time to create the VPN gateways because for the IPSec VPN, you need VPN gateways configured to
be configured. So these are this is the command G-Cloud compute target VPN gateways create and then the name of the
VPN gateway you want to create on-prem gateway one and in which network you want to create so definitely on-prem
gateway you will create in on-prem network and the region in which your on-pre network is residing which is US
central one the same for cloud VPC you will create a gateway with cloud gateway
one name in the network cloud and region will be US1 because we have hosted our cloud subnets in USist one So instead of
doing it in CLI, let's do it in G. I mean in the cloud project we'll go to
VPN.
So it's a fresh project. Don't no VPN connection is there. So it will show you
like this. Click. So now you can see VPN options high availability and classic
VPN. So supports dynamic routing BGP only
supports high availability 99.99 2 * 9 SLA within region supports IP4 and IPv6
traffic but ours is this support static routing no high availability supports IP4 traffic only it's a lightweight VPN
but still helpful in some cases and we have only one tunnel right on network
and VPC network let's continue And we will create tunnel later. So
delete it. We just create gateway first. So let's go to slide. What is the name
of our cloud gateway? It's cloud - gateway 1.
Cloud gateway 1. So you can put any description. Network
will be cloud in which US1 is the region of my cloud. US1.
and then IP address you need to now this IP address where the kota comes in
place. So this will be a dedicated static IP assigned to your VPN gateway.
Here in diagram here there will be a public IP assigned. This public IP will
become a PR IP for this and this IP will become a PR for this. So they will see
each other via this public IP. That's why it needs to be assigned statically. So you have to create give the same name
and reserve and you cannot assign two IP in the same
project. So that's why it say throws uh kota error in at least free trial. So
that's why I'm using two different project and that make isolations as well. So that is good. We are doing VPN
source in one project, VPN destination in another project, cloud and onromise. So that makes more sense also. So you
given the name, you have given the network in which your cloud VPC is there, the region in which your cloud
subnets are there, US one and then the you reserved an IP address. create the gateway. You just created the gateway.
So let's wait this should get created.
So meanwhile this is getting created. If you go to VPC and VPC network IP addresses you will
see one IP is getting reserved. So this cloud gateway one. So this IP is
getting reserved. So on-pre gateway one is not needed. Let's release it. Maybe I
have I kept it.
So you see so this IP is getting reserved 3475240.123.
I will come to this later. Forwarding rule for now let's go back to our VPN.
So VPN is created and it is asking us to add VPN tunnel because we just created a
gateway a device a logical gateway device we just createed with no tunnel. Now let's
go to our on-remise and we need a VPN gateway here as well because as per our diagram one VPN gateway will be in cloud
and one VPN gateway will be in onremise right
cloud create VPN connection again classic VPN
continue and name it as per our slide. So here
the name is onremise gateway network will be onrem no other networks
it's on-prem project IP address here also you need to reserve one the same
name I will reserve
and we will delete this tunnel for now we'll create it later and hit create now
go to VPC network and see IP address. You will see one IP is getting reserved for this. You see on gateway 1 is
getting reserved with this IP address 349205 169. I refresh it.
Yeah. So now I hope it's created. I will show you what is this later. First let's
go one by one. So onremise gateway one is created. So
in cloud project we have cloud gateway. In onremise project we have onremise gateway. So we created the gateway. The
device the VPN gateway is now created. Now it's time to add the tunnel. So first of all let's go to our slide. So
in this slide you see everything is given. You create a gateway. Then create
a routebased VPN tunnel between local and Google cloud network. For that you have to allocate IP address for cloud
gateway one. In CLA you have to do everything one by one. So using this command you reserve a gateway in GI
within a single click I have reserved the IP. In CLA you have to put this command G-Cloud compute address create
cloud gateway one. This will be the name of the address in the region where your cloud VPC is hosted. And then cloud
subnets are hosted. Sorry. And then allocate IP for the onremise gateway. Same command address create on prem
gateway one region US central one. Now this is the command to store the IP
addresses and now let's go to we already created
this in GUI. If you want to do CLI then it will help you this commands. Now you
create forwarding rule. So you see here now you create forwarding rule for IPC on the cloud VPC. You need to create a
forwarding in both direction. So it means that you see here uh load balancer
forwarding rules. So these forwarding rules will be created on your load external load balancer. So what it will
allow is it will allow all ESP packets. It will allow IKE packets for key
exchange and net traversal 4500. So you have to create three forwarding rules if
you do it using CLI. That's why one is for IP protocol ESP, right?
And then another is for IP protocol UDP port 500 for IKE and UDP port 45,500 for
net traversal. So these are the three protocol you need to allow at your
external ACL we can say in onromises but here in GCP we allow it on load balancer
because load balancer is the entity which deal with external connections. So you do it for your cloud VPC as well as
your on-prem VPC. But the benefit of creating it in
JY is as soon as you create a gateway and assign a IP to it, it will
automatically create the forwarding rule. Now let me show you network
UPC network and IP address. You see with this cloud gateway IP which we have
reserved, it created these three forward. one for ESP, one for UDP 400
500 and you one for UDP 4,500. So this is smart enough your cloud console as
soon as you reserve a static IP address for your VPN gateway it create the forwarding rule because while selecting
the VPN type you have selected classicVPN and it know that for this VPN to work it needs a forwarding rule. You
understood right? It will create for you automatically. You don't need to create if you are doing it via GUI. If you want
to do it via CLI then you have to type these three command to create to create
this ESP you have to type all this to create 500 you have to type this 4,500.
Similarly for on-remise you have to do but it's already created for us. Let's move to next step. So creating a tunnel.
Now we create a tunnel for the local network onrem tunnel one. So this is the
command to create a tunnel. If you want to do is via CLI. Now I want to do it via
GUI. So let's go back to our VPN.
So this is my cloud gateway. Click add tunnel. It's quite simple using GI this time. So
name it automatically picked cloud gateway one tunnel one. Let's leave that. Now remote PR IP. So this is the
VPN gateway. This is the IP of your cloud gateway. Now you need the IP of
your onremise right
because remote remote means this cloud gateway
here to create a tunnel you need this IP right that's why I have given you can
you just pick see this IP you don't put this same IP because this is your IP IP
remote IP will your onremise IP. Okay. So just remember that. Then preset key generate and copy
generate any random key. In production you should use key managers for this but
this is lab so good or what you can do is on premise
gateway you can just note these IPs so that to avoid confusion.
Cloud gateway cloud gateway IP is this one.
So you can note this. Okay. And this is your pre-shed key. Preset key should match at both the end
otherwise tunnel won't come up. So here the remote IP in cloud the remote IP
will be of onremise side. So that's why I have added this 125.169 IP there.
Routing options I don't want to use dynamic. I need a route based VPN and the remote network IP range. So what is
your remote network? Remote network is my
this the subnet of my onremise. So a subnet of my onremise is this 192 168
24. So this is the G-Cloud command to create route. But here you get a option
to directly put this and route will be created. Okay, hit create.
So in cloud you have given all the details of onremise side. In the
on-premise side while creating a tunnel we give the details of cloud side. So that PR negotiation will happen. So name
it automatically picked remote PR IP address. So this is the onremise. So what will be the remote for it? It will
be cloud IP. So what is the cloud IP? Cloud gateway IP is this. Let's pick
this IP. Paste it. Preset key. we have already generated. Copy it,
paste it. Then route based VPN I need. Then remote network IP. What is the remote network IP? Here is this. This is
our corporate subnet, right? In which our VMs will be hosted. Okay. Then click create.
Okay. Now you need to wait for some time. You see this forwarding rules are created for ESP 500. That's why we don't
need to open firewall rule for this because it is already allowed on this public IP using this forwarding rules of
load balancer which is automatically created when you create your VPN using GUI.
So you need to wait for some time and your will tunnel will come up on both first handshake is happening. Okay.
So this side it is established. The tunnel is up and running here also. Sometimes it will reflect action. If you
click on view, so your tunnel is established, right?
So if I go back, I should see a established. Okay. So on cloud side
tunnel is established and as well as on onremise side.
This one refresh the page
cloud VPN tunnels. Okay. So as onremise side also so this is the tab to see tunnels. This is the tabs to see
gateways. So
we see now both end tunnel is up. So our VPN is ready.
So what next now? So here you get a command to create a tunnel at onremise end. You have to put this command to
create a tunnel on cloud. You have to put this command to add a route for your corporate subnet. You use this
command to add a route for your onremise subnet. Use this command which I already did in GUI. Now let's go to test the
throughput over VPN. Now to test it single VPN load testing we use some tool
to test throughput use this tool IP RF tool. So this IPRF tool if you search on
internet RF tool is active measurement of the maximum
bandwidth on IP network. It supports tuning of various parameters. Right? So it is a tool which is used to test
bandwidth. That's why we use it. We take a reference. We don't go deep into that. just use it to test it whether our VPN
uh services are up and functional or not. But for that we need to create two VMs right so one VM in cloud and one VM
in onremise. So let's see what are the parameters here. G-Cloud compute instance create the name cloud load test
in the zone here that is under USB A2 standard DBN
11. Okay, let's create it using GUI as we have done everything in GUI.
So let's close this. Yeah, here first of
all we create it in cloud. Go to compute
compute engine VM instance
or let's do one thing create it in GI it will save more time here. So I will open
the GUI for CLI and close
to this configuration.
So this is PCL. Let's open one more. And here we
change it to G-Cloud config set
project test lab. Right.
Test lab.
Okay. So just focus here. This one it's written here. It's for PCL lab which is
our cloud project. And this is our test lab which is our onremise project. So
let's create VM one by one. First of all we create a cloud VM. So let's see
what's the command. This is the command to create a cloud VM. Let's hit this command.
See whether a cloud VM is getting created or not.
and submit uh US cloud is the reference sub network resource cannot be found.
Okay, because we have use some different name of the subnet. If I go to VPC
network cloud subnet
cloud east Asia east one we have created this.
Okay, we in hurry I have chosen wrong one. Okay, let's let's put Asia
Asia - east one. Not sure whether they have zone in B or
not. Let's try to create. So in cloud tab I've just modified the
zone because our subnet are in Asia east 1 B as east one at least B is the zone
I'm picking
okay so it's good our cloud load test VM is now created we create a VM at
onremise side with name onremise load test using this command
I hope we have created this subet in US central one. Yeah, it's correct. So, we
should have a VM here as well.
So, VM is created. So, we are good. Let's do SSH.
G-Cloud compute SSH
zone. So this is the command to do SSH. That's
why we use CLI here. Will make things quicker. So I'm into
the cloud VM. Now let's log into this VM as well. G-Cloud
compute SSH
and so on.
So I am into the on-prem. So one side I have a cloud VM
SSH of page of cloud VM and here I have SSH console of on-prem VM. So setup is
ready to test. Now we have to install this iperf tool first because by default it won't
be there. So let's do a pseudo app get install IPF on both the VMs.
Okay. So here it is installed installed as well. Now on the on-prem at
least on one side we will scan it. So on the onremite load test run this command.
So it will s scan for you have created an IP server on that VM that reports it status every 5 seconds. Every 5second it
will report status. So we have to do it on on premise side. Okay. So it is now
TCP window size 128 and server listening on TCP port 5,0001. So that's why we have allowed 5,0001 if you remember for
this load test only. And on the cloud test VM run this command.
You put a portut load using this command ip rf - c. The client is 192 1681.2
which is our let's see what is the IP of our vampus
otherwise it will create problem we can check it using here compute
engine VM instance. So we have to point to our onremise VM IP compute engine instance.
So this is the 10012 is the IP of our cloud VM and 192 1681.2 is the IP of our
as expected because the first VM we have created in this project that's why it has given that IP only. So now
from cloud we put a load on our onremise right and see whether the load passes or
not. So we have given this load. Now let's go to this. Now you can see here. So it it
is putting load 47 mgaby per second. You can see 58 mega. this load this IP tool
is putting and it's saying and at top you see port 5,000 192 168.2 two we are
into the onremise VM connected with this cloud VM
right so and you you can keep monitoring it will
put load and it will show you that each particular session of 84 MB 62 MB 84 MB
92 MB and it will give you some total output as well so it means our VPN connection is successful right now let's
do one thing let's cancel it. We tested it. Now let's close this one also. So it
sent summary of 1.39 GB per second right in.19 second. So you can see the
efficiency. It's a quite good throughput we have received with the low cost VPN.
So that's why it's helpful in some scenarios. We discussed it. So now do one thing. I I have big if just put if
I have config.
Okay, no issues. Let's do if
Yeah, sorry. IPA. You need to do a IPA command to see the local IP. Here also I
do a IPA. See the local. So this is my onremise VM
as IP suggest. And this is my cloud VM2. I copy this IP and do a ping from my onremise VM toward
cloud. See ping is successful. We are getting a response back. And if I do a same ping
to my on-prem my VM from cloud, I'm just verifying the both end connectivity. So
you see both end connectivity is okay. Now what I will do is I will go to my
VPN and I will go to I'm already into the
VPN tunnel. I will go and delete this VPN tunnel. Okay. And let's see what
happens.
Ping is stopped, right? So if you go back, you see VPN tunnel deleted. And if
I go to this project VPN onremise VPN, the establishation should
now be removed. So let me refresh it.
S is established. View
it will take some time but connection is now wrecked. Okay.
So here monitoring is also there like what received by send byes at this time
it picked because we have used iprf command. So any dropped packet something like that
first handshake right. So handshake with pier broken or for unknown reason trying again zone right so it will keep on
trying to listen if pers comes up. So as soon as pier comes up it will come up again. So if I go and create a VPN
tunnel quickly cloud side VPN gateway is this
continue okay P address is which one
34 no let's copy from our notepad we are into cloud we will add onromise gateway
to always write it down and if you are doing it via CLI and you are not sure
what is the IP, I have given the commands to fetch the IP. So like if you
run this command cloud gateway 1 ip. So your cloud gateway 1 IP will be stored
in this variable and whenever you do a dollar cloud this so you will get the
IP. So this is the command to store the VPN gateway IP. But here in gy we know
it already. So that's why I just copied it and kept it aside. The same shared
key I will use route based I will use and I will put the
subnet of our onremise side.
As soon as I give it I create it and you see it should start again. Will
take some time and it will start again.
provisioning established. Yeah, you see ping is
again working fine. So in this way using cloudVPN you can connect two different
workloads into different VPCs different projects onromise to GCP from GCP to AWS
Azure the same approach will work in all those scenarios. So today we covered one of the hybrid connectivity options. So
as I said like we discussed too much of theory it may be boring I can understand but later whatever we will do is
whatever the theory we theory is approach we have set in our mind and considering that approach only we will
proceed with this course so that we are aligned with the course objective and as
I said we will always focus on security mode so that's it let me delete so what
you need to do what deletion you need to make sure because underlying resources may charge
So first of all delete the tunnel both end tunnel you need to delete
close this one.
Once you delete the tunnel then delete the gateway in the manner of order which
we have created. we need to delete. So here also in gateway if I go to
delete the gateway.
Yeah. So this gateway is deleted. Let's quickly delete the VM which we have
created for load testing.
Okay, here also gateway is deleted. Let's go to compute engine VM instance.
Delete this.
Once this is deleted then only we'll be able to delete the VPC
Yeah. So, instance is deleted where it was deleted. Here
it is deleted. Okay. So in cloud we are good to delete the VPC network. Now go
and directly delete the VPC network and that's it because we have not create
anything apart from it. We started from creating a VPC network and we finished deleting it. So we are good. We have
done all the cleanups. Here also
go to VPC networks. on crim.
That's it. That's the step we need to take care. So like we have covered till
end of this lab. Only thing is left is maxic. Let's
quickly discuss this then we can close for the day. So there is one more uh layer 2 security like the IPSC we
discussed ipsec works on layer 3 and it provides IP security as the name suggest
and there is one more tool which is called as max it's a
similar to not similar to IPC we can say because it's a media access control security which works on layer 2 of OSI
model and it's a protocol standardized by it e so it's industry standard protocol that operates on Ethernet frame
it uses AES GCM cryptography with 128 bit key and 256 bit key versions. So it
can support encryption up to 256 bits. Max sec is designed to provide authentication, confidentiality and
integrity. Same feature which is available with IPSec for data transported on pointto-point
links in the enterprise local area network. So it works on LAN using the advanced encryption standard with Gallio
counter mode as GCM data cryptography algorithm. So it uses this algorithm and
how max for cloud interconnect work. So this is useful whenever you are creating a interconnect like I have seen in
magnashion the interconnect which is created they have secured the connect with max. Okay. So max for cloud
internet help secure traffic between your on-remise router and Google cloud pairing edge router. Okay. You use the
Google cloud CLI or the Google cloud console to generate this 256 connectivity association key. So there
are two major keys here. Then one is connectivity association key and one is
connectivity association key name CKN the CAK and CKN you create these two key
and the same key needs to be set by the end end user or like the other party you
configure your router the on-remise router to use the CA and see values to configure max and after you enable max
on your router and in cloud interconnect max encrypt your traffic between your on-premise router and Google cloud
pairing edger router so this is widely used it's a free to use and industry
standard protocol which can provide encryption up to 256 provide configency integration so it must be used over
because sending a data plain text over interconnect is not a wise way so we use
max sec over interconnect Google recommend a layer security approach for encryption at layer 2 max encrypt the
traffic between adjacent router at layer three IPC secure traffic between customer network and VTC network so you
can see it's a layered security approach. So when if suppose you are designing a highly secure hybrid
connectivity, it is recommended that you use max sec on layer 2 and at layer
three direct VPC network connectivity to your routers. You can use IPSec you
achieve further protection with application level security protocols and definitely there are layer 7 protocols
as well. So layer security approach is there. It is supported by GCP. It is supported by all other cloud providers
AWS, Azure. Here I have given link for maxic overview. So what's the difference
between maxic packet and first of all let's see this. So OSI layer seven OS
layer application presentation session transport network data link and physical we all know. So SSL secure second layer
works on application presentation and session. So this most of times they ask in interview and which layer your SSL
work. cell you can say it works on session presentation application. Your TLS works on transport but it is capable
of providing security till layer 7. IPSec works on layer 3 and this max
works on data link. So it's a new protocol introduced to us now it's a market from very old time but for now
for us at least we know now that data link at data link layer we can use maxic to
encrypt or inte and validate integrity of our data. Now frame structure. So normal Ethernet
frame look like this. There will be a destination MAC header, source MAC
address header, then VLAN information and actual payload. But with max
protection, destination MAC will remain same, source MAC will remain same, VLAN will remain same. It will add a 16 byt
security tag max and it will encrypt your payload. So whatever payload was in
plain text is now encrypted. And then it will add a 16 byt integrity check value ICV. It is used to check the integrity
of the packet. So whenever the packet receives it is a point 2 hop to op
encryption it says. So between two network devices the max runs. So one
device and two device between that you can create max. So source will be this distance will be this. You create C and
CN keys and that's it. Your line between these two hops is now encrypted using
max sec encryption. For encryption it use 16 byt sec tag with which you can
achieve 128 to 256 bit of encryption and then 60 by integrity check value to
check the integrity of the data so that no packet is adulterated or lost during the transmission from one point to
another. So this is uh why I have added it here so that we should be aware like
how maxic works and how you can utilize this layer 2 security technologies to secure our hybrid connectivity from G uh
onremise to Google cloud and vice versa over interconnect right so that's all
that's all for today we have covered all the points I will upload this slide
thank you for your time have a nice Okay.
Stop sharing. Okay. Thank you. Bye.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

43 GCP Security#####

Transcript


here in our PCA. So we'll discuss whatever is required from the
professional cloud architect course for a security engineer. So let's begin.
Let me yeah. Okay. So for table of content for today
is we will we will discuss Google cloud connectivity mostly today. and private
service connect I don't think we can do it today but let's see if we have some time so Google in cloud connectivity as
we discussing in do day two also with uh we have like done the lab on classic VPN but
nowadays you will see in most of the organization they don't use classicVPN because it don't come with any SLA
so most preferred VPN for cloud solutions is SAVVPN because as as name suggests high availability VPN so there
will be two or more tunnels and if one tunnel fail also traffic will be still
functional using another tunnel. So we'll first see HAVPN overview and lab and then HAVPN using terapform modules.
Now the purpose of adding here I will discuss with both using terapform resources as well as modules. So we'll
see both how what is the difference what is the benefit of using modules we'll see that so that parallelly we
grow with Google cloud security and terraform as well. So let's start HAVPN. So HAVPN is a high
availability cloud VPN solution that let you secure connect your on-remise network to your VPC network through an
IP6VPN connection. Most general use case is connecting your onremise to VPC. But
it can be used to connect between two VPC's network within GCP. It can be used
to connect your VPC in GCP to your AWS VPC or Azure VPC. Multicloud is also
supported. Based on the topology and configuration, HB pen can provide an SLA of 99.99%
or 99.9% service availability. So you can imagine like how
much efficient it is in terms of uptime. When you create an HAVPN gateway, Google cloud automatically choose two external
IP addresses. Like these are the default setting. You don't need to if you if you need to, you can do but by default it
will automatically choose two external IP address, one for each of it interfaces. So these interfaces are the
cloud router external interface. In this diagram you see this is the denotion of cloud router. So it will
have two interface two interfaces because we are using here havpn. So one
for single tunnel and then for another tunnel. So if one tunnel fails also the traffic will still be active using
another tunnel. Each IP address is automatically chosen from a unique address pool to support
high availability. Each of the HAVPN gateway interface supports multiple tunnel. Now this single interface can
support multiple tunnels. You can also create multiple HAVPN gateways.
Similarly, you can create multiple gateways also if you want more
redundancy. When you delete the HAVPN gateway, Google Cloud releases the IP address for reuse. So whatever the IP
address has been reserved by Google itself, once you delete the VPN gateway, it will automatically release that IP
address also. So you don't need to go and reduce those IP address. You can configure an HAVP gateway with only one
active interface and one external IP address. You can also configure it with only one
interface like the same we do in a classic VPN. But our this configuration does not provide an availability SL
definitely because if you configure only standalone interface and tunnel if that interface and tunnel goes down
your connectivity you will lose the connectivity right. So let's refer
Google documentation to understand it more better. So types of cloudVPN we know now there
are Google cloud offers two type of cloud VPN. HAVPN and classicVPN. So HAVPN is a topic for today and
classicVPN we are already discussed in which there is no high availability.
So this is already in our slide which is not in slide let's cover that.
So let's see this topology. This will be like helpful.
Hide floating. Yeah. No good. So this is your Google
cloud Google cloud project. Inside the project you have created a VPC network. Suppose network A. So inside VPC network
you have a Google cloud resource. Let's say you have a virtual machine in subnet
west and subnet A central. Okay. So US west
under US west one you have created a subnet A in west and in US central you
have created a subnet A in central. So you have used two regions within your
VPC network to create two different subnets. And you have one resource in this US-based one. You have another
resource in US central. Okay. And what you have done is you have configured
your cloud router because cloud routers are regional resources. HVPN gateway as
so are regional in the sense whenever you are creating these resources you will have to pick region. There are two
types of resource. Regional resource and zonal resource. So whenever we say it's
a regional resource or a zonal resource it means whenever you create that resource you have to create it if it is
a regional resource in particular region it's a zal resource in particular zone so we know cloud router is a regional
resource and hence you can either keep this cloud router in your central one US
or you can place it on both the both the regions for for failover but for
understanding this topology What Google says is they have
used under VPC they have created two subnets in US West one and US central one. In US central one they have created
their cloud router and VPN gateways. Okay. So whatever the VPN configuration we will do we will do in US central one
and then we have enabled a VPC routing which says that US west and US central can
communicate with each other using VPC routing. So we'll see that while doing a lab that will be more practical to
understand. For now just assume that there are two regions. There are two
subnets in that regions each in each there are one subnet per region and we have done a routing so that US west one
can communicate with US central one. Now
if you see like on cloud router
you see that BGP session one and BGP session 2. So let's not talk about BGP
first. Let's talk about VPN gateway. So in VPN gateway you have two tunnels tunnel 0 and tunnel one. They are
connecting via internet to your onremise gateway 1 and gateway 2. So tunnel 0 is
connected to gateway 1. Tunnel one is connected to gateway 2 and these are the
BGP 1 169 2540.1. So this is also reserved there's a
reserved subnet for use to create BGP session. Suppose uh here 169 2540.1 is
used for BGP session 0. So here you will use 0.2. So / 38 it's a C communication
like customer provider age. So 01 if you have configured at GCP end 02 you
configure on your onremise end. Similarly for this 169241.1
then you create 1.2 onremise end. Okay.
And using this cloud router what you will do is you will dynamically route your traffic. So from Google to onremise
and onremise to Google. So we'll see all that. Just consider this as our reference
for what we what we are going to do is as we don't have data center access or we don't have any onremise network. So
what we'll do is we'll simulate a VPC as a on-premise network. We'll create a different VPC and we'll simulate it as a
onremise network. We'll add these subnets there and I will show you I have created my topology for this and this
topology is just for our reference. Let's go back and see what's more there.
So classic VPN all cloud VPN gateways created before the introduction of HAVPN are considered classic VPN gateway. So
HAVPN is more advanced uh more fault tolerant. So we should always go with HAVPN not classic VPN. As
name suggests classic traditional VPN method. Now
let's compare them. HAV VPN and classic VPN. In terms of SLA,
HAVPN provide you with an SLA of 99.99%. For most of the topologies with few
exceptions, but most of the time you will get 99.99% SLAs with HAVPN and with classicVPN you
get a SLA of 99.9%. So it's a different
and for a business critical mission critical application this difference is also huge. Creation of external IP
address and forwarding rules. External IP address created from a pool. No forwarding rule required. So this is a
major difference. If you remember while creating classicVPN we have seen a forwarding rule in load balancer has
been created for that classicVPN. But in ter in case of HAVPN no forwarding rules
are required. And external IP addresses created from a pool. So it's automatically created. We'll see that as
supports routing option only dynamic routing is supported in BGP which is
highly uh like recommended or highly usable because using dynamic routing you
can set path using BGP attributes you can decide you can manipulate routes if you have multiple paths connecting your
on-remise data center to GCP you can decide which subnet should flow via which path so it's give you a lot of
flexib ibility when you use dynamic routing in on the other hand with classicVPN you
get static routing policy based or ro based dynamic routing is only supported on funnel that connect to third party
VPN gateway software running on Google cloud VM instance
so here static routing is supported most of times dynamic routing is only supported for tunnel that connect with
third party VPN gateway software running on Google cloudVM So
that gateway should be running on Google cloud VM then only it is supported dynamic routing supported else you have
to create static routing two tunnels from one cloudVPN gateway to the same PR gateway supported.
So each PR gateway can have two tunnels
in HAVPN which is not the case in classic VPN. Here only single tunnel
connect from a cloudVPN gateway to compute engine VM with external IP address
supported and recommended topology here also supported API resource known as the
VPN gateway resource and known as the target VPN resource. So these are the naming changes. IPv6 traffic support
dual stack. So single stack means either IPv4 and dual stack means you can have both
IP4 and IP6 but which is not supported in case of classic VPN. So these are some differences which you we should
remember and I have given this link so you can go through this for more details. I will
just go through the best practices and then we start the lab. Best practices for cloudVPN. The following best
practices can be helpful when planning for and configuring cloudVPN. So use separate Google cloud projects for
networking resources. To make configuration of IM roles and permission easier, whenever possible, keep your
cloud VPN and cloud auto resources in a project separate from your other Google cloud resources. So whenever you are
using the cloud VPN, it is advisable like wherever you are having your deployments, your application
deployments or workloads are there. So don't use the same project to
deply uh this VPN resources. So there always
use a host project. In the host project you can keep these things in a service project you can share that host host
project to different service projects and there you can do your workload deployments. So this is recommended from
Google uh point of view as well. Routing and fer choosing dynamic
routing. Choose a cloud VPN gateway that uses dynamic routing and BGP. Google recommend using HAVPN and deploying
onremise device that support BGP. Always go with a VPN
gateway which supports BGP because as I said using dynamic protocol like BGP will give you a lot of flexibility in
controlling the routes. Use HAVPN whenever possible. Whenever possible always go with HAVPN. Don't consider
classic VPN for uh business uh cases or mission critical traffics because it has
it don't have comes with SLA. Choose the appropriate tunnel configuration. If you have two HVAN tunnel use an active
passive uh tunnel configuration so that if one fails other will take
over. If you have more than two HVAPN tunnel use an active active tunnel configuration. Okay. So if you consider
the best cases or best practices then if you have having two tunnels only you are using two tunnels per VPN gateway then
you use active passive but if you are having more than two tunnels then you can go with active active tunnel
configuration then there are more but I think we
discussed whatever is required from interview as well as your working perspective whenever you are working
with the cloudVPN in your organization. So our topology look like this. So let's
go through our topology first and then let me open it. So we understand what we are going to
achieve in our lab then that will be easy for us.
Drawings PCA SAVP.
Okay. So this is the diagram which I made for this lab. So it's a VPN setup. We have two VPCs.
One is cloud VPC and another is let's say this one is
onremise VPC. So what we do is we will
simulate onremise environment using VPC and then in cloud we will have two regions. One
is US East one and another is US central one. And each region will have one VM
for testing purpose. Then we create a cloud router.
Let's say in US East one, we'll create it in US East one only. And in the cloud
router, we will have two interfaces. Each interface will have two tunnels.
And then same similarly, this interface one will also have two tunnels. Then we have a
VPN gateway. We create this VPN gateway in our GCP project. Same we create here
in onremise side. So that this tunnels will be configured on VPN gateway and router will have interfaces. So we'll
see that and here in onremise side we'll create a cloud router in US East one and
we'll create a VM in US also for testing purpose. So from this because you see
these are the VPNs are the original resources. So like I have created a VPN
tunnel from US East1 in my onremise to US East1 in my cloud environment. But
we'll test how we can reach from US East1 in onremise side to US central in
cloud. So this is a routing part. We'll discuss later. First aim is to achieve
US east to US East connectivity using cloudVPN. Once that is achieved then we'll see how inter a region traffic
will be uh reachable using VPN. So that we'll see later. First just focus on how
to connect a VPN tunnel in US East one from onremise to cloud and vice versa.
So let's go to our slide
HV lab topics covered under lab create two VPC network and instances. So first of all we have to create two VPC network
and instances like VMs whatever sub sub network we'll create. Then we'll connect configure a HAVPN gateway. How to
configure HVPN gateway? We'll cover. Configure dynamic routing with VPN tunnels. We'll see that. Configure
global dynamic routing mode. This is for connecting from US East1 to US central
which is a later part. Verify and test HAVPN gateway configuration. Attach the G-Cloud command reference to create HAV.
I will use cloud console to configure the VPN. We have already covered G-Cloud VPN configuration in data in PCA. So in
PCA PCSC I guess not PCSC. In PCSC we have
covered this.
I think we covered it in a yeah sorry.
So task one is set up a global VPC environment. Let's let's go through this. I will I will be jumping between
CLI and uh GUI to make it quick because if I go via GI only it will be
more timeconuming. So in cloud shell create a VPC network. So let's first of all let me navigate you through the
cloud console.
Okay. So under no organization I have these two project cloud and on premises.
So I I will be using this. So I'm not binding to them to any organization. It's a two different projects. And I
will connect both these two project VPCs using HAVPN.
So the cloud project is PCA labs. Just remember this. And onremise project is
test lab. Okay. So let me open this
shell.
Let me close this two. Authorize
it.
Yeah. And I will open more one more shell because we are dealing with two different projects.
This PCL lab is already open which is a cloud one
and let's
let's change this project to onremise one. G-Cloud config set
project
test lab. Okay.
Okay. So my cloud project is this one
PCL and my onremise project just for a
matter of simplicity I'm writing those things there avoid confusion and my on-premise project is this one.
Yeah. Now let's
let me go through VPC network. First I will open two tabs.
In one I have opened cloud project. In another I will open
billing is not enabled. I hope so
on promise. So en enabling billing on the Google cloud consoles. So I have disabled
billing B because whenever I don't use it and usually disable it.
Okay. So for cloud no billing is enabled. You don't have any other VPC other than default. So it's a pure blank
project similar to VPC network in onremise side.
There are no custom VPC network. It's a pure default project. So let's start
creating our resources then. So here is the command to G-Cloud
G-Cloud compute network create VPC demo and subnet mode custom. So name of this
is VPC demo. I have the onremise onremise sorry cloud side VPC name is VPC demo. Okay
I'm creating it under PCLs as per our diagram. So PCL lab is our cloud VPC.
Let's create one by one and we verify it after creation of each resource so that
we understand it in GI what is what we are doing. Okay. So one VPC is created. Let's
refresh cloud project. So VPC demo is now created in your cloud project. Now
next step is to create a subnet VPC demo subnet one. So first subnet which will
be in US one. So as per our diagram we are having two deployments. one in US one and another in US central one. Now
to deploy a virtual machine we will need a subn network. So that's why I am
creating VPC demo subnet one in US East one and then I will create VPC demo
subnet 2 in US central one. US East one and US central one. So we have two
subnets so that we will have two VMs created in those subnets. So let's create the first subnet which is VPC
demo subnet one in US East one. So
I'm into PCL lab which is cloud project and I create VPC demo subnet one.
Let me create other also and then we verify both are created.
Okay the first subnet is created. Let's create another and then we verify both.
Okay. So both the networks are created. Now let's refresh it. So here you will see now two subnets are there with no
firewall rules as of now because it's a custom VPC. Everything we have to define on our own.
So in overview you can see maximum transmission which is default value 1460 VPC network ula inter we have don't use
IPv6 we have not used it subnet creation mode is subnet then dynamic routing mode is regional just remember this we'll
discuss this more later because we need this to for inter region connectivity
from US east to US central we have to do some tweaking here we'll do it once our VPN configuration is ready best path
selection mode is legacy which is also a default setting. If I go to subnets then I have two subnets here which I have
created just now. VPC demo subnet one and VPC demo subnet 2 in US East one and US central one with 10.1.0
in US East1 and 10.210 as specified here. Now create a firewall
rule to allow all custom traffic within the network. So between these two subnet I am
allowing everything. So that's why I have given a bigger you can give / 16 also I have given /8 so anything within
this network will be allowed TCP 0 to6535 UDP so anything and ICMP also so
that for testing purpose or anything these two networks can communicate with each other.
So this is the way in which you can allow everything between two networks within a VPC.
This is done. Then create a firewall rule to allow SSH ICMP traffic from anywhere. So from anywhere means from
internet because I do want to do SSH to VMs. I I need to ping VM if they are
reachable or not. So that's why I'm allowing these two. So this is for taking the management access of the
virtual machines. Everything we are doing in cloud project. We have not touched the
onremise side yet.
So this is also created as such access. Now create a VM instance VPC demo
instance one in zone US east 1 C. So as I said as per our diagram we have to create one VM in US east one and another
VM in US central 1 B. So VMs are zonal resources. That's why we say it C B in
which zone we have to create. So let's create first in US east 1 C zone. So
this is the command zcloud compute instance create and we verify it in our GI. So first VM
let's go to compute engine
VM instances and hopefully we see a one VM
I created
taking time. Okay.
Okay. So, VM is being created. So, once this VM is created, we create
another VM inside this cloud VPC with name VPC demo instance 2. And this will
be in US central to here. One VM in US one which we already created. Now we
create another VM which will be in US central 1 B. So let's see I can choose
any zone in diagram I have mentioned B but I'm taking C no issues that won't
create any issue. So let me create another one. If I refresh
you see the VM is created.
Now let's wait for another VM creation. then we proceed with further configuration.
Okay. So this is also created. Let's verify. Okay. So we have VPC demo instance one
in US one and we have VPC demo instance 2 in US central as per our plan. We are
good till now. Task two is set up a simulated onremise environment. Now we
simulate a onremise environment in this in this project onremise project and we create a VPC name on premise here. So
the name of VPC we give here is G-Cloud compute network create onrem. So on-prem is the VPC name here because we are
simulating onremise onremise environment in VPC subnet mode is custom. Let's create. So
but this time we create it not in PCL we create it in test lab because
our onremise is in test lab. Let's create
this is created. I will quickly create sub network. Here we create only one network because
as per diagram we have our VM in only US one. So only one VM in US one. So we
need only subnet in USS. So that using this subnet we create a VM.
Then firewall to allow custom traffic within the network.
Let's create this so that within this or I don't have any other
network here. If you have then this rule will be needed but let's create it. No issues. so that anything between this uh
subnet can communicate. Now create a firewall to allow SSH so that I can SSH to this VM. Ping this VM.
So now create an instance called onremise instance one in the region US one. So
here we have only one VM which will be in USist. Let's create that. Let's
verify everything. So here we see a on-prem VPC. Now under on-prem VPC we
have a subnet on-prem subnet one which is 192 168 1.0/24.
Now the command which we executed should create a virtual machine within this VPC
network. Okay. In US East 1B using the onremise
network which we have created. Okay. So let's refresh it to verify successful
completion. Yeah. So it's done now. Now the initial setup is done. So initial
setup means uh we have created two VMs. Sorry we have created a VPC first. Inside VPC we created two networks. In
each network we have created VM in cloud side. In onremise side we created a VPC.
Inside that VPC we created a subnet in US one. And using that subnet we created
a virtual machine. So all infrastructure to test this lab is now
done. Now we move to VPN configuration. Okay. So the initial step we need to do
is we need to create a HAVPN gateway. Let me show you this here cloud side
will do it first. You can type here VPN. So it will come as a VPN network under
network connectivity. And if you go by network connectivity, so there is a VPN and here it says
create VPN connection. If you click here, I'm just showing you. So a virtual private network lets you
securely connect your Google compute engine resource to your on own private network.
Google VPN uses IK version one or IK version two to establish the IP. So these are the two IK versions which are
used. So please I will suggest go through this. This is the network security basics and you should know like
what's the difference between these two. IKV2 being the advanced one and IK1 also is used most of the time. So you should
know that and then VPN options high availability HA support dynamic routing we have seen that and there is a classic
VPN. So if if it comes to your mind like how to choose between these two. So in
if you are creating it via console you will see get this option. If you create on HAVPN this it will create HAV for
you. And if you click classic so it will clear classic. So the diagram also suggest more in tunnel one only one
tunnel is there in classic VPN but in case of HP you see you have two tunnels at least so that you have a redundancy.
So just for reference I've shown you but using CLI this is the command G-Cloud
compute VPN gateway create VPC demo VPN gateway 1 network VPC demo and region US
one. So we already have this network region ready. Let's create this one.
Sorry, this should be in. Let me clear all this to avoid confusion.
Yeah. So if you see this command, this command is being generated on VPC demo which is our
cloud VPC network. So let's do it in our PCL lab here. So it will create it is
creating a VPN gateway. Okay. So let's refresh it. Now before we don't
see anything now we should see a VPC network
sorry a VPN gateway. So tunnel there are no tunnel but if you click on VPN gateway so you see a VPN gateway is
created and in this command I have not specified any IP addresses but you see it's already created
two interfaces on this VPN gateway and assigned them the public IP address so which was as per theory so it will
assign the public IP external IP automatically okay we don't need to worry about that now create a HAVPN in
the on-prem network so because this gateway VPN VPN gateway you need on both sides. So we created on cloud side.
Let's create it on onremise side. So on side means this test lab
is quick. So it has created two interface again here also you can verify but let's verify from here. So that we
anyway we have to follow those VPN configuration in GI. So cloud VPN
gateway here also onremise VPN gateway is created in onremise network with two interfaces automatically assigned
external IP address. Okay. So that's good. Now the next part
is view the details of the VPC demo. I have already shown you on GUI. So if you
want you can see it here using these commands. So these are the commands. So, G-Cloud compute VPN gateways either
create to create or describe to describe describe means to see the details.
Now, if you see the diagram after VPN gateway there is a cloud router. So, you
have to create cloud router now in each of your VPCs.
So, let's create cloud router in our VPC demo network which is our cloud VPC.
So let's go to cloud VPC and create click cloud router because this router
will be needed for our uh routing. We have to create dynamic routing. So definitely
we need a cloud router. So we created a cloud router in cloud VPC. Now we create
a cloud router onremise site.
So to create a cloud router you just need to specify G-Cloud computer routers create name of the router then which
region you have to create we are using US east1 both sides to host our VPN
setup then you have to specify in which network you have to create for onremise I have to select on-prem and for cloud
we have to select VPC demo and then you have to give a as number autonomous system number so
this is a routing terminology in which each router each van is distinguished using autonomous
system number. So here cloud van we are giving it as a 6501. So for onremise we
are using 65 both cannot be the same otherwise it will consider both as the same network.
So we have given this and then next thing will be we have created cloud
router both there. Now create two VPN tunnels. You know
here is the catch. Create the first VPN tunnel in the VPC demo network and then create the second VPN tunnel in the VPC
demo network. So each VPC will have two tunnels tunnel zero and tunnel one. This
is the tunnel zero and this is tunnel one. Similarly
in onremise side also we'll create two tunnels on tunnel zero and onrem tunnel
one. So we have two tunnels here not single tunnel which was the case in
classic VPN. So first thing first we always start with cloud VPC. So in VPC demo tunnel zero. So I have used the
name similar VPC demo because this is our cloud VPC and tunnel zero in cloud
VPC. Let's create tunnel zero.
Yeah. So it's failing. Why it is failing? It says HTTP error 404 the resource project PCL lab on prem on
premise VPN gateway was not found. Yeah, PR GCP gateway. So let's understand this
command first. G-Cloud comput
zero and here we are specifying PR GCP gateway and this is onprem VPN gateway.
So this project is not able to find because we are creating it in a cloud VPC and this gateway is in onremise VPC
and this two projects are not linked to each other. That's why it's saying in error also if you see under project PCLA
which is a cloud project region US VPN gateway this VPN was not one definitely because it's not belongs to this project
this belongs to another project. Let's copy this complete command. Open a
notepad
and let's replace things. So where you have created your
onremise VPN gateway definitely we have created it in our test project. So let's
add test project here and in test project under region US one we have a VPN gateway called onprevpn gateway one.
So this instead of just writing the name provide a network link provide a self
link. So whenever you are calling resource from another project it's always recommended to provide a network
link. So that this can go and reach to that different project and say okay here
in this project this resource is created. Now let's try this from cloud VPC. We are saying your PR is sitting in
this test lab which is onremise VPC. That's it.
So in my cloud VPC I will rerun this command with specifying the network link of the PR gateway. This time it should
create one. So it's done. You can see it's created.
Let's understand this command. So I have given PR GCP gateway. So P means our
next party the pier from where I want to create VPN tunnel. I'm in if I'm in a
cloud VPC my peer will be onremise at similarly for onremise the pier will be
cloud next hop in which region you want to create we create all our VPN
resources in US east one IK version as I said there are two IK version IK version
one and two two being the latest I'm using IK version two here shared secret so here I'm giving secret in my
configuration but this is a lab but if you go in productions they will use wa
key managers to store these secrets not directly specifying the secret in which router you want to create this tunnel
because these tunnels will be created on your routers. So I I'm want to create this on VPC demo router one and the VPN
gateway used for this tunnel is VPC demo VPN gateway one
and then you bind this tunnel to interface. So interface is zero. So we have already
seen that two interfaces were created interface 0 and one where we have seen this here
interface 0 and interface 1. While creating VPN gateway automatically these two interfaces were created. Now I am
binding my tunnel 0 to interface 0 and I will bind my tunnel one to interface one. So if you see here we have binding
interface 0 to tunnel 0 and we will bind tunnel one to interface one. Okay. So as
tunnel zero is successfully created, let's quickly create tunnel one.
So created. Now let's verify here. Now if you go click on tunnels. So you see
two tunnels are created. VPC demo tunnel zero, VPC tunnel demo tunnel one which are using cloudVPN which we created
earlier and PRVPN gateway is onremise side
okay which is not yet created so that's why it says first tank first handshake
is not happened yet VPN internal will start soon BGP not configured nothing we
have done at advanced level so this is just one side configuration at clouded
now let's Because if I show you here,
here just we created VPN gateway. Nothing else is created yet. You see it? Yeah. So now let's go and create things
on onremise side. But here also you have to specify Pier because create first tunnel in the on-remise network. Here
again I have made a mistake. I have not added the network link. I just said okay my pier is VPC demo which is a cloud
VPC. But how this another independent project will come to know about that
project. So we have to provide network project. So better way to find
the path is what I will do is or let's not do that. Let's
find how to create the network path. So this was the network path for VPN
gateway for onremise. So let's replace the value with
cloud VPC. So I go to my cloud VPC. I copy the project ID.
So in this project cloud project I have created a VPN gateway. And the name of
the VPN gateway is
VPC demo. VPN gateway 1. Okay. So this becomes the
network
link for onremi onrem
VPN gateway and similarly
this becomes network link for cloud. CloudVPN get okay
so here I need to specify in this onremise side the pier will be cloud so that's why I'm giving cloud network link
for tunnel zero and similarly we have to do it for tunnel one let's create both this time remember we are creating it in
onremise network so you go to cloud shell choose test lab which is our onremise network and create first tunnel
tunnel zero
Done. So let's verify. Refresh this. One tunnel should come up.
Okay. So one tunnel is now created tunnel zero using onremise VPN gateway
and the P is VPC demo in this project. You see now it it is able to find because we have provided the network
link. So this is very useful when configuration network links. Now create
create the second VPN tunnel on the onremise network. We created tunnel zero only. Now we create tunnel one as well.
So what we have done is each side we have created two tunnels and while creating VPN gateway it already assigned
two interfaces with two external IPs. Now we are just mapping these two interfaces with tunnels.
So it says the following HVPN tunnels are not properly configured. We know that because we are still configuring
it. It is saying us to you see how proactive these tools are in GCP.
It says that something is missing and hence this PGP is first is now established. You see why it is
established because you have given these parameters shared secret key. It it should be same across all your peers. So
you see uh everywhere I have used the same secret key. So these are IP sec basic things. So let's refresh.
You see at VPN level everything is good. Now only thing is BGP session is not
configured because we have not configured BGP yet. Let this will the next part. So two tunnels in each VPC we
have created two in cloud two is on premise side. So as per our diagram tunnel zero and tunnel one both are
configured at onremise as well as cloud end. So this part is done. How we BGP
session is the thing which is pending. Let's see the last thing is not last
let's see uh create BGP pairing for each tunnel. Now each tunnel will have
uh separate BGP pairing. Tunnel zero will have its own BGP session and tunnel one will have its own BGP session. So
that's why it's a failover right and we have to create it at both the end. So
again four combination will occur. So first we'll be create the router interface for tunnel zero in network VPC
demo. So before creating BGP session you have
to create router interface which interface of like physical router you
will use some van port right. So similarly in cloud router also you have to specify port which you will use for
this tunnel. So here we are using create the router interface for tunnel zero in network VPC
uh VPC demo in cloud. So G-Cloud compute routers add interface. We are adding interface to the existing router. So
this is the router name. Now the interface name is if tunnel 0 to
onrem. So from cloud onrem this is the first interface IP address. So this is
the IP address of the BGP you have to specify. If you specify one here
then two will be your PR. So VPN tunnel which
tunnel. So this interface you will assign to tunnel zero and the region then and after that you create a BGP
pier. First you create a router interface L3 interface and over that L3 interface you write a BGP session. So
this is a BGP configuration on cloud router. G-Cloud compute routers add BGPR
then the router name then PR name it something BGP on-prem tunnel zero so we
are writing this BGP for from cloud to on-prem interface the interface which you have
created above so this is the interface then PR IP address on interface you have added your own IP so in BGP you will add
PR IP address the next stop your onremise interface IP which is 169 25402
if I go below So the same IP you will see here on your onremise interface zero. So this is
how I can explain is like this. Let's see. This is your
router. This is your cloud router
and this is your onremise router.
Now let's say this router has interface
zero. So this interface 0 is different from the VPN gateway interface. VPN gateway interface is pointing to
external. This is your cloud router interface one.
and the same interface one. So suppose I give a IP of
192 168
this one sorry 169 25401 let's give this IP here
okay so this IP here we gave and the PR IP will become
So that's what I was trying to say two. Okay. Similarly for interface one if you
are giving this as IP 1692. This is for interface one. Tunnel one
and add interface. Interface name is if tunnel one. Okay. So we are mapping
these two tunnels. So if you are giving this IP here. So this IP will be PR IP
will be 2/3 one IP here. So second IP will be there.
So this is your self IP and this is your PR IP. Just understand this and then it will be easy to understand like you
created router interface for tunnel 0. Give a IP 1692401. In BGP you call PR IP
not the your IP. So let's create the interface first.
in cloud. Let's create this interface.
Okay. So, let's see this under cloud router. Here's a cloud router in cloud.
So, we have you have your cloud router here. VPC demo router one. And inside the router
I refresh it.
Okay. So simple it's a router. Now we have to configure it then it will show because we have not added we have just
added half configuration. We just added a tunnel
in the VPN tunnel. We have just linked this VPN tunnel to our cloud router. But now once you configured a BGP session
for this tunnel zero where you have to add PR IP address then you will see it
in the cloud router also. Let's add it first.
So the step we need to remember is we have to first create we have to first create the router
interface and using that interface we create a BGPC PR session. Okay. So let's
me go back here and now if I refresh I should see a BGP session
can see so VPN sec BGP session because we have added it under VPN tunnel so
that's why it identified as a VPN security BGP session so
our end cloud end configuration is now done but it is session is down because if you go here if you click on cloud
router of onremise Click on this router. Nothing is configured here. BGP.
So why? Because we have not done any configuration. Let's do the configuration on on premise set. So
these two configuration we did, right? Create the first VPN tunnel. Create the second VPN tunnel. Okay. Huh.
So create the router interface for tunnel zero and create the BGPR for tunnel zero. These two we have done. Now
create a router interface for tunnel one. Let's create both and then
because we have two tunnels right so the tunnel zero work is done let me show you directly going to onremise side let's
finish the one tunnel configuration of both the end then we'll jump on second tunnel so I am into the on-remise what
I'm doing here is okay let me show you cloud router
interface for tunnel zero in onre onremise network so initially what you did is you created at cloud router end
you created the interface 0 and then you added the BGP configuration for interface 0 or terminal zero now similar
thing I'm doing I'm not doing interface one directly I'm just completing this interface 0 part tunnel zero part first
then we'll go to another interface so let's let's create this session so I'm
creating the tunnel zero at onremise site interface for tunnel zero so this
interface will be mapped to your tunnel VPN tunnel. So we have we are
creating a cloud router interface which will be mapped to a VPN tunnel. So that's why we are specifying here VPN
tunnel is on-prem tunnel zero which we are mapping to this interface and we are
giving a local IP 169240.2 which is this IP and for this onremise
router the PR IP will be 1692540.1. So let's go to configuration. You see PR
IP 0.1 self IP0.2 and this will create a BGPR. So this is
a BGP configuration as you do on Cisco routers. This is the command to do it on
cloud router GCP. So what we have done is we have created
an interface on cloud router. Then we have mapped that cloud router interface to VPN tunnel zero. Similarly, we have
created a interface on onremise cloud router and we have mapped tunnel zero of VPN tunnel to that interface.
So, ideally it should bring the BGP session on tunnel zero. So, your tunnel
zero will be active now.
Done. It says okay on my side. Let's refresh it.
You see VPN tunnel is now session is up and running.
So your BGP is now up. So if you refresh it, it will also come up. So one tunnel
is completely configured now. It's now capable of
routing. Yeah. Now let's go back to VPN.
Out of the two tunnel one is showing VPN tunnel status is established and BGP is also established because as I said I
have completed all configuration related to tunnel zero. Now we'll move to tunnel one. Similarly
same thing which we did for tunnel zero. We'll do it for tunnel one as per this diagram also. Now we are focusing here.
We create a interface and we map it to tunnel one. So first we create a
interface. So this is the command create a router interface for tunnel one. G-Cloud computer router add interface VPC demo router one. Then interface name
interface tunnel one IP address mask length is 30 because we are using / 30
here. VPN tunnel. So which tunnel you want to map this interface to. So I'm mapping it to tunnel one. Tunnel zero is
already done. So this configuration we do it on cloud
side first.
Okay. So updated interface is now mapped to tunnel one. Let's add BGPR configuration
for tunnel one in cloud.
So this is done. Now we do the same at onremise side. So this is a similar configuration which we did for tunnel
zero. So that's why I'm not focusing more time here. I added the interface router interface
and mapped it to tunnel one and now I'm adding a BGP configuration that
interface.
So now we can say we have configured both the tunnels and the BGPFs.
Okay. Creating, working, done. So, it's done. If I refresh it, it
should come as a BGP established. Refresh it. Okay. So, BGP is established here also.
If you go to VPN and refresh it,
you see BGP is established. So now this is the live production grid HAVPN tunnel
having two tunnels and both are established and the BGP is also running.
So now let's go here
now to if you want to verify what router configuration you did. I already showed you these things but this is the G-Cloud
command details of cloud router one to verify but you can use this G-Cloud
command to verify those. Now configure firewall rule to allow traffic from the private IP range of a pure VPN. So now
definitely these are the two different VPCs and their firewalls won't allow traffic between them. So what we need to
do is allow traffic from network VPC onrem to VPC demo. So in VPC demo like
in cloud we have to allow everything from these sources which are the on-remise sources. So let's go to
our cloud and here what I'm doing is I'm creating a rule ingress rule which says
anything from this network which is my onremise subnet allow it or TCP UDP IDP
sorry ICMP. If I go to cloud, I go to VPC network firewall. Let me
open both.
So BPC demo allow subnet from on-prem. If you see this rule, this one is the
rule. Anything from this subnet as ingress
allow. And you see it's already pointing to these two because we already have these two reg.
So from onrem side from this side anything coming on TCP DP SMP will be allowed to these two VMs. We need a
similar rule because there is no rule to allow such traffic. You see uh there are
no rule to allow this traffic in onremise network. So that's why we create one for onremise network as well.
In onremise anything coming from those two private cloud network 10.1.0 which
is in US one and 10.21.0 which is in US central one it should be allowed.
So we have a we will have a rule quickly here as well.
So these things you need to keep in mind like you created everything but still it
is not working and definitely look for firewall permissions because we are discussing about two different networks
here VPC network. So this is you know created so we are good
now verify the status of the tunnel I already showed you in GUI if you are interested in e-cloud command everything
is written here. Now it says refer slides for verification and testing HCVPN. Now let's go back to slide.
So we what we have done a quick uh review set up a global VPC environment. We have set up a VPC demo as a global
VPC environment where we we are saying it as a global VPC because we are having two regions there. US East and US
central. And now set up a simulated on-remise environment. Then we have created a VP onremise VPC and different
project and simulated it as onremise environment. Now then we created all prerequisites like creating VPC,
subnets, creating virtual machines. Once that prerequisites are done then we created HAVPN gateway in both VPCs.
Then we have created two VPN VPN tunnels each like one two VPN tunnel at cloud side and then two VPN tunnels at
onremise side. After that uh when total four tunnels were created two at cloud
side and two at on-remise side then we thought of okay we now add we now need
to add BGP session but before adding BGP session what you need to do is you need to create a cloud router interface so we
created a cloud router interface for tunnel zero we created one interface for tunnel one we created one interface at
cloud side for VPN tunnel zero we created one cloud interface cloud router
interface at on premise side and for tunnel one also we created a cloud
router interface at on-remise side. So two cloud router interface each side
similar to VPN tunnel and on top of that we added a BGPR configuration. This is
the complete overview which we need to follow. If somebody asks you interview also you can say in this way you can
create a HAVPN. Now create broader BGP pairing. We have
done this. Few points to note. Google cloud uses 169 25400/6
IP address range for BGP because it's a local link range. Okay. So you just need
to make sure if you see we have used our BGP peers within this range only. Okay.
So don't go outside this range usage. For example, when creating an HAV
gateway, you may you can manually assign a pair of link local IP or address from this range only. Okay, for each Ver you
can also specify a mask length of 30 because cloud router must use a unique /30 C from this range. So / 30 means
total four IPs. So only two usable. Okay. So one and two 4.1 and 1.2
this type of configuration request/ 3C automatic assignment. If you don't
manually assign a BGP IP4 address, Google cloud will automatically assign one for you.
So if suppose in configuration we because we we wanted to have a control over what IP our PR will take.
So that's why we have added a IPv4 address here. Suppose you don't add IP4 address or PR IP here. It will
automatically pick a one for you. The cloud router is a fully managed offering that provide BGP speaker and
responsible responder capabilities. So this cloud router is a fully managed offering from GCP which help you to
configure BGP. It will act as a BG BGP speaker and responder. So it will do all BGP control plane decision
uh for you to communicate with your on-remise router. Now verify router configuration. This task verify the
router config both VPC and configure firewall rule. We have done all these things. You allow verify private
connectivity over VPN between each enable global routing mode for the VPC. We see it now. Verify private
connectivity over VPN. Now let's verify whether private connectivity is working or not. logging to on-prem VPCVM via
SSH. So I'm into the on-prem side. Let's do everything via G-Cloud today. G-Cloud
compute instances
list. So first of all I will list in my onremise side how many VMs I have. I already have only one VM new assist one
we know with internal IP of this. Okay. Now let's
SSH into this VM using command
G-Cloud compute SSH
zone.
So now we already have a firewall rule to allow SSH and that's why we are able to login into this onremise instance
one. Now if you do a IPA so you see this is the address 1.2 for
your onremise VM. Similarly what I will do is I will log to G-Cloud compute
instances list. No need to login. We can because
we can see the IP address from here also. So we have two VMs here. VPC demo instance 2 and VPC demo instance one.
But instance one is in US one and instance 2 is in US central one. But our VPN both side VPN is configured in US
East one only. So here also we have US our cloud router everything VPN resources are in US one at cloud side as
well as onremise side. So let's do one thing. Take this IP of US one. So this
VPC demo instance one is in US one. Let's pick this IP. Go to this VM. I'm
here inside the VM. Okay, let's ping this IP. Okay, you see a response. So, this
response is because of your VPN. This traffic is flowing
through your HAVPN. Now, let's do one thing.
Now we have done this ping via VPC demo instance one because it it reside under
the same US one. We should be able to get ping response as we have connected these two VPCs using HAVPN together
securely. Try to ping VM VPC demo instance 2 via its internal IP and
observe the output. Now let's pick this IP which is in US central one which is
not the region of our HAVPN configuration. It won't work. Why it's not working?
because by default your VPC is listening to original routes only. So let's go to
our this is very important to note. Let's go to VPC
or let's go to cloud router VPN
cloud router and
best routes in US central 1C in this network
view because we don't have cloud router here in this US central one and hence it's
not able to route it but let's see in US one because our cloud router is in US1C
and view so it's listening to these two routes best routes so these are the onremise
routes this is this has been advertised via BGP so in cloud project we have this
onremise route and similarly let's see in our onremise so this is the way of
checking The routes you may come across the scenarios in your organization or in interviews they will ask you how to
check routes. So you need to go to cloud router click on best routes and now select the region in which you want to
check the route. In onremise I only have only one region US one and the network in which you need to se see the route.
So our network we know is onremise VPC. So this is a VPC network and the cloud router which you have and see. So we are
just saying this cloud router on onremise side is saying which routes. So you see it says it is able to see only
10.1.0 routes and if I go to VPC
in VPC demo under subnet I have this 10.1.0/24 0/24
which is in US East one and then I have 10.210 in US central one but somehow the
onremise router is not able to learn the route from US central and why so because
by default your VPC network which we have created is in regional mode. So
initially at the start of this uh demo I have shown you like in VPC demo dynamic
routing mode is regional. Okay. So what it means is whenever you
create a subnet because VPC is a global resource but the sub networks are
regional resource. So whenever you create a subnet and if this is set to default regional that subnet routes will
remain in only that region in which it is created. So we have created a subnet
in US east one and that's why the routes only US east routes are
visible to your VPN tunnel because your VPN is also configured in US East your on onremise site VPN is also in you have
you have created your all VPN topology within the same region but this one VM
is outside your configuration outside your domain I will say so this
VM is completely outside the US history US central hence it's not able to learn
the routes now to have this capability what you can do is you can edit this VPC
setting and here dynamic routing region cloud router will learn routes only in the region in which they are created
okay now I want this cloud router to run global
global routing lets you dynamically learn routes to and from all regions with a single VPN or interconnect and
cloud router. Okay. So now if I select this all regions from this VPC will be
advertised to the cloud router of the VPN tunnel. Let's save it and see the magic. So ping is already in continuous
mode and it's done updating still updating. Okay. And we will verify from here also
like if you are getting that 10.1.2 successfully updated. Now we should see
this 10.21. 2110 sorry 10.2.1.0 and we are also pinging the same IP
10.2.1.2 to the same subnet. Now let's go and refresh.
You see, but you see a priority 333.
So priority is now because this route is not local routes. These routes are coming from
some other regions. So that's why it has having more priority. The lower the priority, the more is the preferred.
Okay. Now let's see. Yeah, you see now this ping is working. So in this way
your VPC global routing mode you can enable and which will help you to learn routes from other region also. So this
is very important point to note when we are dealing with GCP
global routing things like you are creating a VPN tunnel in one region and now you want
uh that uh let's say diagram then we understand you created a VPN tunnel on
US east one only and then with the through the same tunnel you want that
other regions of this VPC is also accessible then your VPC should be in a global routing mode.
Okay. So, this cloud VPC should be in
global routing mode because if it is in regional mode then it is always
advertised the region in which cloud router is created and we created cloud router in
US1. Then how come it should learn the routs from US central one? The only option is to
enable global routing mode for your VPC. Okay.
Now that's it. I guess yeah we can also
think of other testings like uh let's
so initiate a continuous ping. We will initiate a continuous ping and we open a new tab here. And what we do is we go to
VPN. Let's keep this screen on.
We go to VPN one of the tunnel. So we are under VPN tunnel. So let's delete
the first tunnel. Ping is already going on. Okay. Let's go and delete the VPN
tunnel. Delete. Okay. So it's meanwhile it's deleting and observe this output.
So we are our ping is continuous from on-remise to cloud side and in background we are deleting one of the
tunnel. So you see tunnel was deleted but there was no impact
on your ping. So even a single packet is not getting dropped. So you can consider the level of SLS which we are getting
while using HAVPN. So this was the all motive behind
to show you like how VPN helps organization to have high level of availability as well as security.
Security is most important here because whatever the data in transit between your onremise and cloud is getting
encrypted using IPSec. So this is a major advantage you won't fall under any
compliance issues as if you are using some sensitive data then definitely it will it is going to help you to secure
your data in transit. Nobody can man in middle can extract the data
because it's completely encrypted and you can choose those encryption parameters if you are aware of IPSec or
I will suggest go through that the basics things in network security CCN security something like so you can see
what are the basics of IPSec how you can tweak IPSC settings but from Google point perspective this is the complete
configuration which we have seen today for IPSC using G-Cloud so now cleanup is
important because we created too many resources and it can incur charges. So
let's do a cleanup now quickly. So first thing first, I'm deleting the
VPN tunnel first.
VPN tunnel is deleted. Now I will delete the VPN gateway
at cloud side.
Similarly, I will delete the VPN gateway on onremise side.
So you see it's a initial page we are getting now.
So everything at VPN level we deleted. Now we go to cloud router. We see a cloud router is there. Let's
we have to go inside it and then click delete. You deleted onremise cloud router. Let
delete
cloud site router. Let it get deleted first.
Okay. So cloud router is deleted. Now we go to VPC. Sorry. First we delete the
VM. both then
and follow the steps so that you don't forget uh deletion of any bending resources which can add charges.
Whenever we do such big labs we should make sure what cleanup we should follow.
I delete I'm deleting all the VMs which I have created.
Now if you want you don't want to do it via GUI I've added all lab cleanup
G-Cloud commands here. So whatever if you follow the same naming which I have done in this lab. So you just you don't
need to do anything you just run all this command one by one and everything which is created as part of this lab
will get deleted. So that I have also done and all are attached in this our slide.
So yeah this is attached here in this habg cloud shell. Now let
everything is deleted from one compute instance perspective. Now finally we have to delete the VPC network.
Go to onrem delete VPC network.
So once VPC network is deleted then I'll think one more thing to see we'll we'll
show you because too many IPs were given right. So we see we verify whether Google has released those IP address or
not. We'll verify that once VPC is deleted. So successfully deleted onremise side.
So to see the reserved IP addresses you can click on IP addresses within VPC and
you see there are no reserved IP. So whatever Google has reserved it has automatically deleted it. So that is
good. So whatever they will reserve automatically they will delete it or release it automatically as well. So that's a good thing.
Now if I go to address you see nothing is
allocated as of now. So that's it for for HAVPN. Let's see in slide if we have
missed anything.
Okay. To verify the tunnel is down. So we deleted one tunnel but we still we have observed that uh uh deleting a
tunnel also does not affect the traffic because our live uh session was there.
Ping session was there container. We have not observed a single drop. So we have already tested this. If you check
this command so you will see handshake with pier broken for unknown reason try again. So this is the reason which can
be asked like this is seen. So it means your tunnel is not able to reach the pier and establish the ping between we
have done it should work as our tunnel are in HA refer G-Cloud command initials to do a lab cleanup. We already did
that. So we are good. So now the next part is HAVPN using terapform. So let's
quickly do one thing and the modules we discussed tomorrow. So as as we already
discussed how to create HAVPN using G-Cloud and cloud console. Now both the things we are now aware. Let's see how
to provision HVN using terapform. There are two ways in which you can provision resource using terapform by creating each resource using different resource
block which we we'll see today or by utilizing modules already created by Hashikop to provision HAVPN. This we see
tomorrow. And then first approach is lengthy as you create each resource and write code for them. But with modules we
can call it and reduce our time writing all code. So you can reuse the module block the block of the configuration
which which can help save a lot of time and resources. Terraform modules. A
terapform module is a collection of standard configuration file in a dedicated directory. Let's discuss terapform module tomorrow because we are
going to utilize this by creating each resource using different resource block today. So
here terapform example for HAVPN you can use the following example to deploy HP gateway between VPCs. You can use
terapform resources to bring up a sample HAVPN gateways between Google cloud network. So let's open this what it says
and for module we discuss it tomorrow. So let's see
using resource block. So this is the command.
Let me close this which we already did.
Yeah. So this is the one. So let's go through this quickly. If you remember
initially we have already discussed what are resources, how to create VPN firewalls. We we sorry VPC firewall
rules using terapform. We already discussed this. So I will directly jump on what are the what is the content of
this terapform script. So resource Google cloud compute havpn gateway. This is the name of the resource which which
is provided by Ashikar. And then you can name it anything which this this won't
go in your configuration. This will be stored in a state file. Then you have to specify a region in
which we have to create the HAVPN. Then the name of the HAV VPN. Here we have used HAVPN 1 and the network G-Cloud
compute network one. Similarly, HAVPN 2 in a
network two. Now we create network one name as a network one and we create
network two. So here we are not using two different project. Within the same project we are creating two network. Network one and network two. And in
network one we have one VPN gateway and in network two we have one VPN. So you can see how you can reuse the lines
right. So things which will be created you can add a network link here. So it save time and then sub network we in
network one we have created subnet one in US central one in subnet two we have created US same our as our topology we
created two subnet in network one and in network two also we created two network
first onremise network and second onremise network then we create a cloud router using G-Cloud comput Google cloud
Google compute router this is the resource name and then the name of router which will go in state file and
here is the router name HAVPN router one which is go in your configuration inside GCP. Then the region in which you need
to create your router and the network which you want to use. So definitely I'm using I'm
creating it on router one in network one and router two in network two. Okay. Now
VPN tunnel for VPN tunnel you have to use this resource Google compute VPN tunnel and then this will go in state
file. Then name of the tunnel is HVPN tunnel one, tunnel 2 and then region US
central. Here we have used US central. Then VPN gateway you have already created. So you can add that link here.
PGCP gateway you have already created. You can add link here as we added network link there. A secret message.
So this is the secret we are using a secret message and uh router. So
whatever router you have created you can use this resource block. You can resource ID is used to call that
resource into the block. So that we are using here. We have discussed this earlier. Same for VPN tunnel one,
tunnel 2. So two tunnel is set right. So that's why. So tunnel one, tunnel two and
tunnel 3 and tunnel four. Right? So total two four tunnels.
So router one has these two tunnels and router two has these two tunnels. So tunnel one and tunnel two belongs to
router one let's say cloud side and tunnel three and tunner four belongs to router two let's say uh
onrem side. So if you want to verify you go up. So you see the router one
is created in network two. Sorry router two is created in network two and router
one is created in network one. So so this is the thing
four tunnels let's go to back to our tunnel. So tunnel 44 tunnel we have created then we know after creating
tunnel we have to add BGP session. So to add BGP session we have to add router interface. So to add router interface
using terraform you have to use Google compute router interface then a name and
then the name of the actual interface router one interface one which router so you have to provide self link of the
router region then IP range you have to provide
the C/30 block which will be used and it it will automatically assign one IP to
your and another IP to your peer VPN tunnel which tunnel you want to call here Then to add BCP this is the command
name router 1 PR1 in you have to specify the cloud router region then the PR IP
address okay so here you have used 1691 2540.1 the PR will be 169 2540.2
to PN advertise route priority is 100. You
can set this priority how much priority you want to advertise of the routes you are sharing.
Then the interface. So interface you already created here, right? So you're just so this one will be your ID. So
this and then this dot id dot name
and then router one interface 2. Similarly
because for tunnel zero we have created one interface then we have to create one interface for tunnel one also. So
similarly we have done. and then add BGPR. Same thing you have to do for underremise site
right these two and if you do all these things your uh
complete savvn will be ready now if you want to see this in action just copy it all
open the shell
I do it in a different
So if you closely go through this commands and if you just note down the steps like in the last G-Cloud session
we have done everything one by one that's why I'm not focusing more time here but if you note down the steps you
will clearly understand like what command is performing which action here and you can just break down it here
because these things we have to learn like this syntax we have to learn from the terraform. This is the way in which
you you have to do. You can just change this re variables like region name
otherwise resource this will remain same or you call a self link this format will
remain identical like how you recall the configuration. So these things mostly
will remain same. So we just need to follow the process like what sort of command we need to provide to create
HAVP.
I will set this to one other project we call config set project
and anyway you most of the times you will be doing this using modules. Uh it's not recommended to go by this. You
see the length of this right? So it's not practically possible to
remember all these things and do this. So just I'm showing you using resource how much lengthy it is and then tomorrow
when I show you using modules we'll discuss modules closely because there we
understand because in organization in enterprises you will see people are using modules only they don't use this
resource block for such a long configuration because it won't help as a automation right. So that's why
we just just be sure like uh what is needed when we configure it using a
resource block. So that's why I'm uh doing it in a fast manner. So let's go
to ls cdj. This is one of the project. Let me clear
all this so that this will be a blank folder.
I do ls clear. Nothing is there. So it's a completely blank folder. Okay. Now
what I do is just create a main.tf. Terapform is by default instal installed in cloud shell. We don't do do any
installations. Copy all this code. Paste it.
Okay. And just run derafform in it.
So it will initialize what libraries it needs to install to run this code.
Then we plan it. So it says 20 22 items to add, zero to
change, zero to destroy. Yes. And then finally apply it. So whatever we have done manually this
time we do it using terraform. So it will take some time to create the resources.
Let's monitor the process.
So using resource block what we are doing is we are using this resource block to get ourself familiar with
terraform like how terapform uses the resource because if you use modules also
somebody has created a source code for modules and that source code will actually contains that resource. So this
is the long way to achieve the uh final configuration desired infrastructure as a code but using modules we just reuse
these things. So hash corp has already created the source code we'll just reuse them and then you will see how in a
simple code we can create all this infrastructure. So that's why organization or enterprise adapt that
modules not going through this uh resource block for such a long configuration and I've not created any
VMs anything using this code still you see how long it is so that's why we focus more on using modules tomorrow we
just see it as because in Google I have seen they have mentioned it so we should be aware of
like using resource also we can create HVPN
It's creating everything.
Now it's adding here. BCPs maybe is the final step only.
Okay. So now in plan it says 22 resources needs to be added and it says apply complete. All 22 resources were
added. So our code everything was perfect. So that's why it has created.
Now what we'll do is we'll close this one. We go to the project which is dev
truth. I have added it into this dev truth which is inside organization
this one dev truth thread. So let's click this and we directly go to VPN
here. What I have done is I have created within the same project I have created
two VPCs. If I go to this VPC network
you see here I have created two network one and network two. And I have created
a HAV VPN within these two VPC network. This is also helpful some of the times
because here you have the control if you do a VPC pairing. So all pre-programmed
routes from VPC 1 and VPC2 will get exchanged. But suppose you don't want to exchange all routes just you just want
to exchange only specific route then you can use this type of a setting where you can control what routes will exchange
and using your BGP. So that's why this is also helpful most of the times. Now
if you go to VPN so let's see what things and are provisioned here. So in VPN I go to
VPN gateways. So two VPN gateways. HVPN one in network one and HAVPN 2 in
network 2 is now created. And each VPN gateway has two tunnel.
HVPN tunnel one, HAVPN tunnel 2 and the HAVPN 2 has HAVPN tunnel 3 and tunnel 4
which I have showed you in that code. So you see tunnel one, tunnel 2, this
belongs to HAVPN 1 and tunnel 3 and tunnel 4 this belongs to HAVPN 2.
Okay. So in tunnel you can see all are
established all BGP is also up. Okay. So in this way
you can check like uh everything is done and it it was very quick using terapform. So we don't have to going
worry going on every different section and configure things. We just created a code and just applied it and it's done.
So in this way you can use terraform resources to create havpn and now now if
I want to do a cleanup. So cleanup is also very easy. So I will suggest you are doing your lab always use terapform
if to do repetitive things because it will get yourself familiarized with how terapform
works and it will also save most of the times like last time when we do it using g-cloud for a cleanup only it took 15 to
20 minutes now here for a cleanup I just click a terapform destroy and whatever has been created will get destroyed
so that's the beauty of using terapform and tomorrow when we see terapform module That is something which
enterprise uses, actual engineers uses in their projects. That will help us more to get familiar with how Terraform
can be used to do automations in GCP cloud at least for this HAVP.
So I I give a value of yes. So now it's deleting everything.
Let's see. You see one by one it will delete
everything. You just need to just verify and everything will be done in back end.
You see two of the tunnels are now deleted.
So all tunnels are deleted. Now it will delete VPN gateways.
That's why terapform is so popular in cloud deployments because it saves a lot
of time for manual configurations and all. See everything is all configuration
related to VPN is now deleted. Now it's deleting your VPC network. So let's go
to VPC and check.
Subnets are already deleted. Now it will delete VPC network also.
Says still destroying one and network two.
And good thing is it will also give us the report at last that yeah all 22 resources are deleted.
Deleted. Now we should see a report soon. See destroy complete resources 22 destroyed.
So we created 22 resources and destroyed 22. So I'm sure that whatever has been
created is not destroyed. So no need to worry about anything left uh active and
which should cost me. So that's why using terapform is always beneficial.
That's all for today. Thank you very much for your time. We discuss more about HAVPN using Terapform module
tomorrow and then we see about private service connect. Thank you for your time.
Have a nice day. Bye.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

44 GCP Security#####
Transcript


four of our professional cloud architect more focused on Google cloud security.
So yesterday we were discussing about Google cloud connectivity in which we have discussed in detail about HAVPN
overview and the lab
how to create HAVPN using G-Cloud shell how to validate things using Google cloud console and then we have also seen
like how we can create those resources using terapform.
So in terapform we have just used terapform blocks resource blocks to create those configuration which is quite lengthy and we have seen instead
being lengthy it's still more comfortable doing it because if you are doing via terapform you can destroy it
without any hurdles like you can click a terapform destroy and whatever the resources you have created using
terapform will get destroyed. Now one more more important thing which is like more industry standard and the
company's most widely used is terapform modules. So let's see what's there in
our slides for terapform module. So we directly jump to that.
So Hen using terraform that we have seen and then terapform modules. A terapform
module is a collection of standard configuration files in a dedicated directory. Terraform modules encapsulate
group of resources dedicated to one task. Okay. So it encapsulate all the resources which is required to perform a
single task. Reducing the amount of code you have to develop for similar infrastructure components like if you
are doing like suppose in organization most of times you will be updating the
firewall rules. So now every time you want to update a firewall role you use
the complete code is not a good idea right. So what you do is you can utilize this modules. So whatever your
organization policies, constants are there with respect to firewall rules, you can set it somewhere as a source code and you can just ask the users and
it makes sense also because in cloud the application team also should have the flexibility to rule the firewall rule as
per their uh requirements and you can being as a security officer or CISO you
can just what you can do is you can review the code so that you make sure that only
things which are allowed gets processed or either you can reject it. So as a code owner you can review it but
application team can also raise it because using modules is not that difficult. Yeah, creating it is something technical but by using
utilizing modules to create the resources is not that difficult. We'll see that terapform modules are a way of
extending your present terapform configuration with existing parts of reusable code reducing the amount of
code you have to develop for similar infrastructure component. So types of terapform modules there are majorly two
modules like the root module and the child module. So every terapform configuration has at least one module
known as its root module which consist of the resources defined in the TF files in the main working directory. So
suppose I want to create something using modules. The file which I will create will become a root module and the source
code which I will call will become a child module. We'll see that of a module. Usually the root module for
configuration can call other modules to include their resources into the configuration. So a root module will
call this child module and other modules to include the
resource into the configuration module that has been called by another module is often referred to as child module. So
if we take example of
these things are worth learning because in cloud we don't do any deployments
manually right so we do it using infrastructure as a code and terapform is one of the most widely used so
suppose you are already having a code
say this is here main code
stored in GitHub repo. In GitHub repository you
have repo is a folder where you have stored this main code and now you want to deploy some infrastructure. So main
code with suppose this is the main code for firewall
rule creation in GCP.
And now I want to every time suppose a user every time
they want to create this firewall rule. Okay. So instead of using this main code
every time when they want to create a firewall rule what they will do is they will
create this main file as a child module and every time they want to create a
rule they will create a rule module and they will call this
child module there. So let I let I can show it like this.
Every time they want to do they will call it. This main module will be called
in each root module. So you can consider it like this. So name suggest like we will call root
module but you create root module and the main code is the child module which you call in your code. Okay. So always
remember this. it it can be asked in interview. So whatever the purpose for using this code like suppose I want to
create a firewall rule. So I will go and call those modules. So if I am calling I
will become a root module and the module which I'm calling will become a child module. In this case I am calling this
firewall rule main code every time. So this become child module and wherever it is called. So this is the final
configuration where we will apply terapform init plan and apply. So terraform actions will be performed here
but we are reusing this code every time. So this become child and wherever you are performing terapform actions like
apply wherever you are deploying the resources will become the root module. So this this point we should remember
and then this we have already seen like between VPCs you can use terapform resources
which we have seen in detailed yesterday we have created the resource also. Now today what we'll do is we can provision
the same resource with the modules as below. So let let's open this what is there in module.
Okay. So this is the complete module but direct if instead of directly going into
that let's go to Google and search for
GCP haVPN
using terraform. If you search like this so you will get
terapform examples for HAB. So this is the documentation provided by Google. There will be another documentation
provided by terapform as well. So you can follow any one of them. Let's see what's there provided by Google. So this
between VPCs. This is the one which we have used yesterday. Okay.
And so from here only I have took that I have just updated few things and we have created this. But for today we are going
to use modules. So here you can see Terapform Google modules. So let's see what's there. For every modules you have
to go and check in registry because the Hashikorb has created all this source code for you. So you don't need to worry
about that. The source code you can see here it says source code and its sub module is HPPN HA. Okay. Now there will
be a main module called VPN. Inside that VPN because there are multiple types of VPN right HVPN classic VPN in class in
VP HVPN also there are different topologies. So that's why it is called as a submodule but the main module is
module VPN. So anything related to VPN will be stored under this module. Now provision instruction. So this is
common. This is standard which we need to follow whenever you are using module. So it says you have to specify an object
called module. Then name it a unique name VBNA module and then under curly
braces you have to specify the source. So this source is the path to your source code. So this is the source code
right? But for this they say if you use this
also that is fine right because they terraform is suggesting us to use this as a source path for this module and
version is six insert the four required variables here and now
he's saying that required the four insert the four required variables so four variables are required if you don't
specify them they it won't work so cloud havpn module compatibility
and all. So here they go module module format. So they are also giving us the format
how to use it. So let's say you created a module module VPN HA. Then source we
took this source from same this one terapform Google module VPN Google
modules VPN HA. So this is the source code. Then version we took equal to or
greater than four. Anything will work. And then whatever you see see here you
should take from the latest file from the hashik every time. Then project ID
you have to specify your project. Then in which region you want to create this VPN. Then network which VPC network you
have to provide the network link. Then name of your VPN gateway is my HAV VPN gateway.
Create VPN gateway true. So this is something. Now usage inside usage we
have to as I've told you like there will be different use cases of how you are want to create this modules. So one is
GCP to GCP like within GCP between two VPC network you want to create this you can utilize this complete GCP to on-prem
if you want to create you can utilize this GCP to on-prem using multiple external VPN gateways you can utilize
this. So they have given all references but now today I'm interested in something GCP to GCP because I don't
have any other environment with me. So I will use this GCP to GCP. So everything
is provided here. So I have taken this reference from this code. So that's what
I wanted to show. Suppose in future you have a requirement to use from GCP to onrem you can follow this and modify
whatever is according to your infrastructure.
So second yeah let's so let's see what I
have done in this so I have taken that as it is copied
that in my code source is same version is same you see version is same in place
of project ID I have given my project PCL lab okay so I have so here You will
see there is a two module VPN HA1 and VPN HA2 because we are creating GCP to
GCP. So source is also GCP and destination is also GCP. So that's why the first module will deal with first
project first VPC network and the second module will deal with second project second VPC network. Okay. So in the
first VPN I have given PCA lab. So this PCA lab is our uh this one
cloud. So this this lab is our cloud and on premise we are using this uh test lab
yesterday we have already used if you remember on premise so let me we know this all
this thing let's don't waste time there so project ID for cloud one side is let's say one side is PCL lab another
side will be test lab I already have only two projects then region is US one as yesterday now network so network is
something your VPC network self link. So this is the format https ww.googleaps.com
compute v1 projects then the name of the project global networks and whatever the network we have created but as of now we
have not created any network. So we need to create this cloud network first before using this
code and then we have to name it uh VPN
gateway net 1 to net 2 then PR GCP gateway. So this will be the
PR gateway which will which we'll create in this VPN HA2. So whatever the gateway
we create here. So this is the way of module.vpn VPN ha2 dot selflink. So
whatever is the self link of this module VPN ha2 will become the p
gateway. So you see how advanced here is to call the uh the code part of code
which we are going to create later also because terapform is smart enough so he
will understand that okay this part is being created created by me al only so it will create the resources
accordingly. Then router ASN you have to provide here one ASN here and another
ASN here. So 65 64513 for remote for local 64514.
So in tunnels you have to provide remote zero. How many tunnels you will create? We create two tunnels right uh 0 and 1.
So for zero BGPR you provide the address 169. We have seen that 16 254 1.0 uh
something uh/16 was there. So we have to take from that range only. So we have taken that ASN
for remote ASN is 64 513 because for local it's 14 and for remote is 13. Then
BGPR options nothing. BGP session range is this. Okay. So local 1.2 is local and
remote is 1.1. IK version 2 we are using VPN gateway interface is zero because we
have two interfaces on VPN gateway. We have seen zero and one. So zero we map to tunnel zero and one we map to tunnel
one and share secret we have not specified anything here because we will
say here module VPN H1 random secret. So randomly
it will generate some secret value. So this is the way of specifying it. So similarly you do for tunnel zero you
have to do for tunnel one and then the same process you have to follow for VPN and HA2. So using this small piece of
code you can make sure that your VPN will be configured. So what what this
will configure? This will configure two VPN gateways. Then it will configure two tunnels each VPN gateway. After that it
will create router interface and then it will create BGPR session also. So all
these four steps of creating VPN gateway, tunnels, router interface and then BGPR configuration will be done
using this small piece of code. Right? And whatever values you have to modify you can modify. So that's why we have
taken all these options. But one point to note is it says the required four variables
here. If I go to input then required input. There is a option of required inputs and optional input. So required
inputs name is required. Network in which network you are going to provision. This is required. Project ID
is required and region is required. Others are optional. Right? So required means these inputs are required and if
you don't provide this inputs then your code module code won't work and optional is something if you want to more
fine-tune or more customize your configuration then you can use all this optional inputs right and it also
provide the way in which you need to configure this right so this is the way but as terapform has already provided us
with this uh uh very good uh illustration like how to use this code.
So it really helped me as well to quickly uh follow this. Now let's do one
thing project we already have. So one project is PCA and for another VPN
gateway the project is test lab. Okay. So project we already have. So one thing which we don't have is this VPC network.
So let's quickly create the VPC network.
So these are the prerequisites which I have written already here if you go to slides. So prerequisite of using above
script create two VPC network cloud and local network in the two different projects as specified in the code. So we
have two projects PCL labs and test lab. So in each project we create one VPC network. You need to update the code
with your project ID while using the code. So I have written my project ids here but make sure whenever you are
using this code you update your project ID. So let's open the console.
So I am into my first project but I want to go to no organization because there I
have this these two project cloud and on promise. What this the same we used yesterday for our G-Cloud lab or HVPN.
So in VPC network I go to VPC network. I can do this using terapform also but yeah I have not
I thought let's create say not that much time consuming so I will create a
network called cloud so make sure you follow the name code so include we have
written cloud so we should use cloud otherwise the self link will fail right
so it will look for something as a cloud in PCL apps so I am into the PCL apps
and it should be cloud so that it will match Then I will create a custom. Then let's
add one subnet because I want to test it also. Cloud subnet.
And then IPv4 subnet range. Let's give 10.01.0.
And then allow SSH. Let's allow SSH. Let's allow
ICMP from any.
Yeah. So we don't need to cloud allow custom ingress apply to all.
Okay. All ingress we can also choose. So that will be more good for now because we we don't have to
do any more firewall configurations. So I'm allowing everything as a ingress to this
and then create. Make sure go to issues. Okay. Region we
need to region. US is our region. because we are creating our subnet in that only. So done.
Let's see later if you want to create more firewall rules but for now I have added a default ingress rule because by
default erress is allowed. So we need to just enable ingress.
Now let's go to another project which is onromise.
Here also I create a VPC network name local network. So you have to copy
it from here. So this we are creating in test lab.
So onromise belongs to test lab. Okay. Let's give this the name local network
custom local network subnet
and then region same usist one and here I will give it 19 so local
network is this 192 1680 firewall rule allow ingress to all
create. So now I have the two VPC networks
update the code with our project we already did. So just our I think our requirements are
now fulfilled. Let's verify uh this network is there. Firewall rule is also created. Let's wait for this and then we
meanwhile I will open my cloud shell.
Expand it.
Not here.
Okay, you can be any of the project. That's not an issue because it will call the required project using this code. So
let me do one thing. Do ls to cdjs.
Let's remove all file. So I will make this as a
blank. Okay, nothing is there. So here we will create
our file. So let's do and create cat
main tf and write all this
control a ctrl c.
Just paste it here. Ctrl d ls. Now there is one more thing here I want to show
you is open editor
and here open folder.
So it will initialize. So it will open that folder of us like DJ folder it
should open and there we can see what is our code. So this is a good thing if you want to edit it here also you can edit.
So it's loading main.tf. So whatever code we have
written. So we added it using Linux command but they made it now quite fast.
Initially uh like it was not working that well but uh now they made it quite fast and you can use this editor as well
or you can if you want to modify anything you can do. So let's collapse
this for now. and let's clear it. So we know that our
main.tf code is there. So this time we are we have not actually uses any resources. We have called it everything
using modules. Now let's so this is the root
module wherever the main.tfm which we have created. Okay. So this becomes
total four main.t. Okay. This one don't let me do
ls. Yeah. So this becomes our root module. Okay. And
the code which we are calling this uh source code, right? This becomes child
module. So remember that. So you you may get confused like what the whatever we
are calling it's the main code. So it should be the root. No, this is not this is different. Wherever we do terraform
init terapform apply that becomes root. So here because I want to provision the resources here with this main.tf. So
this becomes the root model. We do a terapform in it.
Then we do a terapform plan
18 to add. Let's do apply.
Yes. So now it it will start creating the
resources. Meanwhile it is creating the resources.
What I will do is I will create one VM in each of these VPC just to test the VPN connection and save some time. So
create instance cloud VM.
Make sure you pick the right region where your VBC subnet is there. Say it's in US I know. And then in networking
you have to choose your custom network cloud and as you have picked the right region it is showing that okay your
subnet is present in this region because we have created it. Done. Create.
Similarly let's create one VM in onremise network.
So on premium
okay so pick the right region US one so any it doesn't matter networking
local network and we already have a subnet in US one that's why it's showing
Okay, create. So this VM is ready. If you do SSH from
here, you can let's do it from here only. This time we do we did it from G-Cloud yesterday.
So let's refresh it. Yeah, this V is al
SSH because we already added the ingress firewall rule while creating the subnet.
So this side I have cloud VM and this side I have onremise VM. And let's
monitor this. Okay. So you see how quick it was using modules. So the time we
created two VMs our complete VPN configuration is done. Let's verify this. Let's go to VPN. In cloud, we
should see one VPN gateway, two tunnels and both BCP sessions are established. Okay. So in cloud VPN gateway, we have
this name VPN gateway and this has two tunnels. For each tunnel, we have VPN tunnel
established as well as BGP session up. So you see using modules everything was done so quickly.
We can apply the same approach to deploy any resources in GCP using derform
modules. So we just go to hashop pick the right modules whatever you need to
deploy change the required input variables and that's done. So here also
established. So VPN is up. So if VPN is up then I should be able to
Okay, maybe some firewall rules still not there.
ingress cloud.
Okay. So, it took within that network. It took Okay, we
need to add more network here. Let's do this edit. It took this as a network, right? So,
within that network, it allowed everything. I want to allow from anywhere.
Let's not allow everything. just uh specified TCP22
and ICMP for ping save.
Similarly in this onrem side also I will allow a role so we picked a actually
intra subnet rule. So that's not that won't be
helpful here. So it's if you see it correctly it says anything within this network can communicate but I want to
communicate from other side from any network because I'm doing SSH from my PC. So that's why 0.0 source
and specified PCP22
and ICMP for a ping within tunnel key.
So retry
here also. Retry.
Okay. So we are into the cloud VM and we are into the on-prem VM as well. So
let's do a IPA. So this is the IP of our cloud VM
10.01.2 and let's do a IPA. This is the IP of our onremise VM. So
from my cloud VM I will ping this onremise VM.
See we are getting a response because this is flowing through your VPN tunnel.
And if I do
again it's working. So let's continue the ping. And so this is the
complete configuration. And let me suppose I want to destroy it because we already done this. So let's destroy it
now. And as soon as it is destroyed, you will see this ping will stop because
this pings. So in background it's destroying. Let's see. Let's monitor.
Okay. Let me do a yes first.
In this way using terapform modules we can provision the resources efficiently. You see the pings have stopped now
because in background it says destruction complete. So it has remote
BGPR is now deleted. If BGPR is deleted, no routes are there and hence
stopped working. 33% packet loss.
Okay. So in this way so let let it destroy whatever the
terraform has created and whatever we have created we will destroy that. So we created the compute engine
here as well as here.
Close this one as well.
That's more advantageous using terapform modules because we don't need to worry like what resources we have provisioned.
So we clicked a single terapform destroy and whatever the terapform has created it will delete for us. So it makes
management easy. Let me delete this uh default sorry custom firewall rule which we have
created. And once everything is done, we will remove this U VPC network as well.
So everything is destroyed now, right? So whatever related to VPN has been destroyed. Let's go and delete the VPC
network.
in onromise. I will go and delete this VPC network first.
It will be deleted. Then let's delete this one as well.
As soon as you delete VPC network, subnet within it will be deleted as well. So that's good.
Okay. So we did all the cleanups. So it was uh quick and we have completed the
SAVPN topic. So our next topic is private service connect. So private
service connect is a capability of Google cloud networking that allows consumers to access manage services
privately from inside their VPC network. So there are two things one is private access and another is private service
connect. So private access means you want to reach Google services privately like using
Google backbones. You are not using any external IP. But private service connect is different. In private service connect
you reach uh the services with the IP of your choice. So you your connection
don't leave your VPC in short term. So you specify one IP or subnet and every
time you want to access that service it can be a Google service it can be a third party services it can be your on-premise hostings or applications you
can connect all Google APIs. So you can connect all these services using the IP
of your internal VPC only. So your traffic never leave the VPC and it is very important uh uh like um service
when we deal with security like because whenever we are trying to access a
resource we should access it privately from our VPC network. We should not expose to internet. So private service
connect is a capability of Google cloud networking that allow consumer to access manage services privately from inside
their VPC network. from inside the VPC network is the point to note. Similarly, it allows manage service providers to
host the services in their own separate VPC network and offer a private connection to their consumers. If you
remember, we have done a lab on cloud ideas. So, in that cloud id also we have used this private service connect
feature. So, cloud is a third party feature provided by Paulo
Alto available within Google cloud. So whenever you want to utilize that feature you don't need to go to internet
and connect with Paul Waldo services it is linked to our private service connect so that privately we can assign
a subnet in inside that subnet Google will provision all those resources related to cloud ids and we access it
securely using our internal IP address.
So for example when you use private service connect to access cloudSQL you are the service consumer and Google is
the service producer. Okay. So this is also point to note whenever you are using private service connect. So the
requesttor which is going to use this service so that will become a consumer
and the actual service which is being served will become the producer service producer. So in case of case of cloud
ideas we have utilized the cloud ideas. So we as a resource in our compute we
have used will become a service consumer and cloud itself will become a service
producer. With private service connect consumer can use their own internal IP address. Okay. So we can use our own
internal IP address to access services without leaving their VPC network. So this is the main point here like we are
using our own IP address internal IP address to access that service. Even we are suppose a service is there in
another VPC. So if you are using private access what we are doing is we are
connecting to that another VPC using Google backbone but still you are
crossing your VPC limits right but in case of private service connect you are not crossing the VPC limits you are
using one of your internal IP and you are hosting that services on that IP. So I will in lab you will understand it in
a more better way. Traffic remains entirely within Google cloud. Private service connect provides serviceoriented
access between consumers and producers with granular control over how services are accessed. You are having much
control because everything you configured in your own VPC the IP with
which you will access. So you'll have you have more control on the producer services as well. Private service
connect support access to the following type of manage services. Published VPC hosted services which include following
like Google cloud services such as APG or GKE control plane. So this comes
under one of the published VPC hosting third party published services provided by private service connect partner for
example cloud id intraorganization publish services where the consumer and producer might be two different VPC
network within the same company. Okay. So I have something in another VPC and I
want one VPC to use that services privately. There also we can utilize this private service connect feature and
the another most widely used feature is Google APIs such as Google cloud storage or bigquery. Now this Google APIs are
mapped to public IP addresses. So every time if developer or your
project users want to connect with Google APIs by default it will go to
public Google APIs. But sometimes or more most of the times if you are in
your internet why you want to expose your users to internet to utilize this APIs. So this is like very useful. I've
seen it organizations using it. So at at that point what we can do is we can create private service connect to
utilize Google APIs and that will be the motive of our today lab also because I have seen it in practically in use and
if you understand this future uh private service connect is something we will understand in much better way and if
anybody ask or if you come across a scenario where you have to implement it you will understand what all steps you
need to follow to implement it. Let's uh follow Google documentation to just to
brush up like if I missed anything in the slide. So this is the link which I have provided. Go through this and here
there is a diagram. So in say consumer VPC. So in consumer VPC suppose there are clients and their clients are behind
a load balancer and they want to connect with Google APIs for example. So you have to create
a endpoint. So there there will be private service connect types of three
types endpoints, back end and interface. So what we are things has it own
purpose. So like like if want to use a Google API so we can create a endpoint we can create a
back end. If you are having multiple clients you can create backends and there is a interface.
If you go to endpoint so what is endpoint? Private service connect endpoints are the internal IP address in
a consumer VPC network that can be directly accessed by client in that network. Okay. So in in endpoint what
you do is you specify IP internal IP. So this is a consumer project. So definitely there will be one consumer
VPC. So you pick one of the IP within this VPC only and your client see the
external services as that IP and then using private service connect connection
you uh access that services. to host to publish that services you have to create
a service attachment and in producer VPC so that is something when you act as a producer VPC
but for a consumer point of view you create the endpoint which will create and client will see that endpoint
as the target and everything in back end will be done privately so this is the
one of the option is endpoint another option is backends so private service
connect back end let Google cloud load balancer send traffic through permits private service connect to reach publish
services or Google API. So here if you use type as a back end then there will
be a consumer load multiple clients will be sitting behind a load balancer and you will create a load balancer back end
that will send traffic to your private service producer network. So it says private
service connect back end let Google cloud load balancer send traffic through private service connect to reach publish service or Google API. The back ends are
deployed through private service connect network endpoint group that reference a producer service attachment or supported
Google API. Placing a load balancer in front of many service providers consumer with more visibility and control then is
possible through a private service connect endpoint. So because you have already have a network device in
between. So more control is there. Back end let you create configuration customer own domains and certificate you
can use you can utilize certificates while connecting to. So more extra layer of security you can produce consumer
control failover between manage services in different region. So in endpoints we have only one right we have this one
endpoint which is connected to Google APIs for example. But if I want to
design a failover approach so I should go with back end because what I can do
is I can fail over between manage services in different regions. Here I
can create multiple uh like uh private service connect and
load balancer will load balance between them. So this is uh possible using back end. And the last one is interfaces. A
private service connect interface is special type of network that refers to a network attachment. Okay. A service
proer can create a private service connect interface and request a connection to a network attachment. If
the service consumer accept the connection, Google cloud allocate the interface and IP address
from a subnet in the consumer VPC network that specified by the network attachment. The VM of the private
service connect interface as second standard network interface that connect to the producer VPC network. So let's
see the diagramraph. So in interface what will happen is we have a consumer organization and we have a producer
organization. Under organization we have a consumer project here producer project then consumer VPC producer VPC under
consumer subnet you create a network attachment. Okay. And that network
attachment will communicate to producer VPC for private service connect interface and standard network
interface. Okay. So this VM will now connect to this uh consumer
using this uh special link which is a network attachment between consumer VPC and private service connect interface.
So this is more advanced feature
endpoint work in the reverse direction letting a consumer say here you see direction is reverse. So private service
connect interface will communicate with the network attachment. So these are all
different types but what I will more focus here is on endpoints because I have seen it it has been used because uh
it's simple to use and widely used to connect the Google APIs one of the use cases. So we'll discuss that later if we
have a chance we see about others in a lab. So let's go to
our diagram. So lab scenario our customer require a mix of private interconnect and public Google API
access for cloud storage data transfer. Okay, so this is the use case.
Suppose our customer uses both mix of private interconnect and public Google
Google APIs access for cloud storage data transfer. Now
I'm having I'm a client hosted in US central 1 in this subnet 10.0/24.
I have two VMs VM 1 and VM2. Now whenever I want to access Google APIs, I
want one VM to always use private IP some private IP 10.10.10
and I always want VM2 to use public Google API. So maybe there will be a use
case right. So this maybe this this VM having some sensitive information and we
don't want to expose it to internet and that's why whenever this VM wants to connect to cloud storage API it should
go privately and whenever the VM2 which is not that sensitive if it wants to
connect to cloud storage it can go using internet like Google public APIs. So
this is our requirement. Our customer requires a mix of private interconnect and public Google API access for cloud
storage data transfer. To meet our customer requirement, we will deploy private service connect consist
consisting of a unique/32 address. So this is the / single IP address. Boto
config. So boto config is something in the VM like how it access the Google
APIs. So we change that and DNS record update. Here we have to update the DNS record also. You see because that's why
I said doing this lab will make all the concept related to private ser service connect clear virtual machine will one
will utilize PSC for cloud storage bucket so PM1 PSC in short for private service connect so VM1 whenever it wants
to connect to cloud storage it will use private service connect in contrast VM2 will use public Google api.com IP ranges
via the net gateway okay so we create a cloudnet and whenever This VM wants to
connect to Google API. It will route through cloudnet. And now you will say why cloudnet? Because these two VMs
won't have public IP, external IP assigned to their interface. So these two VMs will be private VMs. And that's
why for the VM2 to connect to Google cloud or external public IP address, it
has to use cloudnet. So we see that functionality also today how to utilize cloudnet for a private VM to communicate
with internet. So this will be a very interesting lab today.
Let's start. So please follow the below shell commands to configure the lab
environment. So again this if I do it using GI it will be very large lab. So
that's why I have created this shell commands.
So we'll follow all these command to set up this lab inside cloud. Make sure that your project ID is set up. So let's set
the our project ID. So in which project we want to do this. Let's pick a
project. Let's do it in cloud
or not cloud. Let's do it in this under organization.
My first project dismiss. Okay.
So, what is asking me to do is set the project. Let's set the project. your
project name. I will modify it here. You can do it according to your project
and then
this first of all I will have to open a cloud shell. It's already there. Let's clear
the session. Set the project in which we want to deploy our resource today.
I'm into this project now. Let's create a variable project name and add our project there. So that every
time we call project name, our project will be there. We don't have to specify
project every time. So if I do a eco, you see our project ID is here. Now
enable all necessary services. We need compute because we will create a VM. We need service directory for this private
service. Connect. And then we need a DNS Google API.com because we are working with DNS today as well. So let's enable
all these three APIs in this project at once.
I hope it's done. Now let's create a VPC network called Psc.
So we create a custom VPC PSC lab is created.
Now in the inside that VPC we create a PSC lab subnet and we give assign it a subnet 10.00/24
in US central one. Okay.
After the subnet is created we create a firewall rule which allow
TCP22 as a SSH and we allow it only from the AP reserved ranges. So we because
the VMs which we create don't have public IP address. So we have to connect it using identity aware proxy. If you
remember we already discussed it in our previous classes. So this is more secure preferred way of
logging into our VMs. That's why I've added the rule. Now create cloudnet instance. So to create a cloudnet we
have to first create a cloud router. So this is the command g-cloud compute routers create crnet in network PSC lab
with some because for a router we have to provide autonomous system number and the region. So we are picking region US
central one. This is done. Firewall rule is created.
Now let's create a cloud router.
is created. Now cloudnet. So now to create a cloudnet what you
have to choose is G-Cloud compute routers create. Then the name of cloudnet then
the in which router you have to create this. You have to pick the router which you have created. Then autoallocate net
external IPs. So you don't want to manually assign the net IP. It will autoallocate net all subnet IP range
whatever subnet is in this VPC net it enable logging and the region is US
central one. Okay. So for all this because network we have already specified while creating
the network. So it will choose that and anything in this region if they want to
go to internet they will utilize this cloud router and cloudnet and they will give allocate a net IP external let me
do it using GUI so that it make more sense net cloudnet you can use that CLI
command also but to make it more understandable I'm using this gateway name so net gateway name is cloudnet
that type public you can do a private that also like changing one IP to another network you have to select ESC
lab region you have to select your central cloud router we already created using
CLI and then source endpoint VM instance GK serverless our is VM instance let's not
change it or cloudnet IP address automatic or manual
you can statically assign also so recommended is automatic let's do it and anything left net all IP ranges enable
logging region US central let's not enable logging create
so cloudnet is now running now you want to create a priv private service connect endpoint when you configure the private
service connect endpoint IP so we will name it as PSC endpoint IP you will need
to provide a unique IP that is not defined in your VPC. So always remember the private service connect IP is not
the IP of the subnet which you have created inside your VPC. So to make it more clear.
So I have one VPC right PSC lab inside this VPC I have one subnet. Okay PSC lab
subnet but you cannot utilize any IP within this subnet for private service
connect. It should be unique IP outside this subnet. Okay. So you have to choose a unique IP for this not because this IP
will be used by your internal resources like VMs other things but that private
service connect IP is reserved for connecting to producer services external services so that's why it should not be
part of this that's why it says you will need to provide a unique IP address not defined in your VPC so this is the
command to create that G-Cloud beta compute address create PSC IP global purpose is private service connect
address is PSC endpoint and then network PSC lab. So I think you can do it from
here also. If you go to VPC PC lab
private service access allocate enable service networking API
okay this is different. Subnets
add subnet. Let's let's do it using.
So this is the IP which we have to pick. Let pick the IP from our diagram. Where is our diagram?
H let's use this IP 10.10.10
notepad. We'll choose this IP as a unique IP to connect to our 10.10.10.
So this is the IP which I want to use to connect with cloud storage API
privately. So let's not confuse ourselves and use this
only. Okay. So, ggplot beta compute address create PSC IP. This is the command to create a private service IP.
Global your IP is global. P purpose is private service connect. So, this is main the purpose of this IP is a private
service connect. So now Google will identify okay this IP should be used for private service connect and in under
addresses you can specify this like this and network is PSC lab. Let's run this.
in G-Cloud site. So it should create a invalid IP address/32.
When you configure private service connect endpoint IP, we need to provide a unique IP address. Okay, let's
Let's not give SL 32 and try
H it's now created. So you please don't specify a subnet mask because it's a
single IP not it's a host not a subnet. Okay. So we are add introducing it as a host not as a subnet that's why adding a
/32 failed. So let's go to this PCSC labs and refresh it.
So you don't see anything here but when you go to IP addresses you will see IP PSC lab okay but it is used by none. So
if you want to do it from here also you can reserve external static IP region global attached to this. So here you can
do it from here also but that is more convenient to do it using g-cloud that's
why I have done it. Now store this for duration of lab. What I will do is I will store this IP as a PSC endpoint IP
variable. Now to do that you have to use this command G-Cloud computer address list filter name is equal to PSC IP
format value. So using this what you can do is you can store this as a variable.
Okay. So this printed the IP which we have configured. And now in this variable
endpoint we'll call that above command.
And if you do a eco PSC endpoint now so every time you use this word that IP
will be called. Okay. So this make more sense more readable that's why. Now create a forwarding rule to connect to
the endpoint to Google APIs and services. Now you need to create a forwarding rule to connect the endpoint
to Google APIs and services. So what what your endpoint is
your address is PSC IP
and target APIs is all API. So what we are doing is we are creating a forwarded rule saying this uh PSC IP should be
able to create the IP address which we have created is a PSC IP right so this IP address should be able to communicate
with all Google API. So for that you have to create a forwarding rule. So it will come under a load balancer
forwarding rule. So this IP we are allowing this IP to connect with all Google APIs. So we are giving this this
permission. This is the command G-Cloud beta compute forwarding rule create PSC endpoint
and then global network is PSC lab. The address is PSC IP and the target Google APIs is all APIs it can communicate.
Now list the configured private service connect endpoints. So you can either list it from here. How many endpoints we
have created. So you have created only one which is name as PSC endpoint. IP address is this TCP and target is API.
So this is the all configuration you have to do. So you have to first create cloud router and that is okay. You have
to create the address that unique address which you want to use to
connect to Google APIs. For that you have to create this IP address under purpose private service connect. Then
these are all the formats to store that IP address. If you don't want to do you can just provide this IP address in the command. But this is the method by which
you can utilize a variable type of things. And then you have to create a forwarding rule. So forwarding rule make
sure that the IP which is you created for private service connect has access to all Google APIs. So for that you have
to create this and then list. So if you don't want to list you can go to private
service connect and you will see it here also if you don't want to do see it on CLI. So here you will see now it's end
one endpoint is already created connection connected endpoints. Yes endpoint
status is accepted Google APIs. So it is accepted because it is possible for endpoint to connect with Google APIs and
the target is all Google APIs. Still we will utilize only cloud storage but we are giving a reference of it can it is
capable of accessing all APIs depending upon your future configuration but we do only for cloud storage and the network
is this and the IP address is this which we reserved. So this IP does not belongs to your VPC subnet. It's a unique IP
address which has given to this endpoint and using this IP we will connect to all Google APIs because we have created a
forwarding rule which allow this access. So list we can do describe the
configured private services can I have shown you in gy already GUI sorry create a cloud storage bucket and replace
bucket name with a globally unique name you prefer so let me use this G this is
a command to create a bucket GS MB you can do it using GI also we have done multiple times in region US central one
on and the name of the bucket will be Rohit bucket lab test okay let's
So this will create a storage bucket. Bucket is created. Let's verify.
Rohit bucket is created. Now
let's delete this one. I don't want this.
So I have only one row with bucket lab test which is for this lab test. Now let's store this bucket name as a
variable. So bucket name is equal to this.
Now every time you know you use a bucket name it will give this bucket name with
bucket lab test. Okay. Now DNS configuration create a DNS private zone. We need to create DNS private zone. So
I will create it using this command and then a record we create from GUI. So
this will create a already exist. Okay, let's me see maybe I have done this. I have not deleted it
DNS cloud DNS I already have these two zone right. So let's delete both.
this one also I will delete. You cannot delete the zone because it has added a record set. Okay, let's delete record
set first. You cannot delete a zone with active record set. So that's why it's asking us
to delete the zone and sorry record first and then delete the zone. This was
when I was doing the practice for this lab. Let me delete it and I will show you from the start.
So everything is fresh now. Nothing is there. Rerun this command. So let's
discuss this command. So what is this command saying? So we are creating a private DNS zone.
Why private DNS zone? Because for this Google APIs uh let me tell you something
so that it is more understandable. Let me create a VM instance.
Anyway, we have to use two VMs, right? VM1 and VM2. I will create a VM1. First, I will just show you why we are doing
this private zone configuration. VM1
lower case. Okay. VM1. Yeah. US central one any network
PSC lab subnet and external IP I don't want
none Okay.
Okay. Let's let's create this
again. We have to create firewall rule and all. Let's do one thing. Uh let's not waste time here. we'll proceed it
and while uh showing you the final test I will show you like why we have used private DNA zone but a simple
explanation would be now if I want to access
storage.google.com googleapis.com storage googleis.com.
Okay, so it resolves to a public IP address. So that's why I was trying to configure a VM. So it will resolves to a
public IP address. So every time your VM will try to reach to storage.gooleapsis.com,
it will resolve to a public IP address and it will look for internet access from that VM. But when using private
service connect I want to route it to private IP. So that's why to route a URL
to a private IP definitely you have to use DNS right. So suppose I added some
prefix like custom for example custom.stoapp.com storageapp.com but
where I will define this I will have to use DNS server that's why we are using cloud
DNS private zone okay and here what we'll do
is we'll create a a name record a name record simply IP to
host name host name to IP something host name to IP
or URL to IP something. So here what I will do is I will map this custom storage Google API.com
I will map this to our IP this IP. Okay.
So now what will happen is suppose storage.googleapi.com googlei.com Google will provide some public IP let's say
100 189 11 19 something random we'll say
that later when we have a we have machine running so this is by default a public IP which Google will assign but I
don't want my request to go to that by default IP that's why I will create a custom uh Google API host name and that
API I will map to this private service connect IP so using this And we already created the endpoint right so and we
have assigned that endpoint this endpoint access to complete Google APIs. So internally now this all thing will
work that's why cloud DNS plays a major role here. You will understand it when you see it working but I have just given
you a reference. Let me delete this for now. I don't need it. It will complicate things. Okay. So
rerun this command of creating private DNS zone. Okay. So zone is created.
There are two types of zone. One is private DNS zone and another is public DNS zone. So what's the difference? If you are using a public DNS server which
is accessible on internet. You have a domain then you can create public DNS
servers. But if you want to use it internally, you don't want to expose it to internet then a private DNS zone is
sufficient. And we want to use it internally. That's why we are taking private zone. And we have created it
using this p.googleap.com private. Okay. Or P stand for private. So you can name it something like that.
Now you what our command says is you have to create a a name record using console after refer recording. So it's
more understandable here. So that's why I'm creating it. So go to the zone. In zone you will see S SOA and NS record is
already created. You can go add standard. A name is already there by default. So
look for the A name. So name here whatever is after name is the a name. So
a name nothing but your Google API name private Google API.
Okay. So storage.psc endpoint p
storage dot storage. So this is the format. Whatever the service API you want to use, you have to specify the
first name. After that you have to specify the hyphen and then the endpoint name. In our case the endpoint name is
PSC endpoint. So this is the format you have to use. So, storage PSC endpoint
and after that the name of your private DNS server. So, it's a
p.gooleapi.com a name record. And let's see what is the TTL. TTL is 300. Let's
modify TTL to 300. and uh
and zone is we already we are configuring under zone so we don't need to provide it
yeah and the IP is PSC endpoint IP we stored it in a variable we but we already have this as here we go and add
it okay you can select it here you can also get but record set okay we already
added it so let's create so this is simple like from here has been successfully created in zone PSC. So
whenever any resources in within this project will hit this uh API name custom
API name this will result to this IP. So now you may understand like why we have used this DNS private DNS zone here. So
if we go back to our diagram, this VM1 whenever it will access that custom
zone, our private DNS server cloud DNS will respond with this IP address and
then this IP is already configured under private service connect endpoint and all the communication then will flow through
private service connect. For routing this traffic this way, we have created this private zone. And for VM2, we
already created the cloud net.
Now let's go ahead with our lab. Create two virtual machine. So this
that's why I have not I have deleted that VM because I already have this command. So why to
divert our configuration? Create a virtual machine. PSC instance one used to validate private service connect. So this will be used to validate our
private service connect. I not I'm not giving any public IP address to this and let's go and create this
clear it and create the V. Now let me open a new
shell and set
the project. To set the project always use this so that whenever you use any
command and then
config set project
and now
so we need to create another VM which is a PSC instance to validate
public Google APIs. So in this second tab I will create the VM instance 2 PSC
instance 2. So PSC instance one will be used to connect using privately and PSC
instance 2 will be used to connect default Google APIs. So let me show you first
this VM is created. Now this is the command to do a SSG cloud comput SSH zone then instance name project don't
need to specify project because we are already into this project so it says external IP not found defaulting to
using IP tunneling okay and we already have a firewall rule with IP sources that's why it worked now
we are into the instance one if I do a NS lookup
and Uh somewhere I will have my
somewhere I will have this uh storage.goolepsi.com. Okay. So this is the correct name.
If I do a NS lookup from this,
NS lookup is not found.
You name something is there.
VPN search for it and uh sudo app install DNS utility. Okay, let's install
this so that we can do NS lookup.
Similarly, let's log into this VM and install it. We need it there as well.
So, this is the command to log into instance two. So remember it. First tab
I have instance one. Second tab uh tab I have instance two. So it says
yes I want to install this.
Let's install it here as well.
So now at least we have DNS lookup.
Okay. So now this is the magic you see right. So all these IP storage.google IP
address it has it has been hosted on C all these are the public IP addresses.
Okay. So now whenever you as a resource in Google cloud want
to access storage.googleapis.com you will have to go via internet by default because this uh uh
storage.gooleapis.com is hosted on this public IP. Okay.
maybe uh via internet or maybe Google backbone also but it is hosted on this public IPs but I don't want to leave my
VPC definitely it's not in my VPC right in my VPC I don't have any of these subnets so but I don't want to leave my
VPC to connect to this storage.com and that's the purpose of using private
service connect we will use our own IP which is this IP to connect to these
services and for that purpose we have created a custom Google API name which
is storage PSC endpoint.p.googleapi.com and we have added this IP and this IP is
configured as a private service connect to all Google APIs. So you may understand the flow now. So let's
I am into both of the VMs. Both the VMs are configured. Let me do one more thing. Let me show
you if our private DNS is working or not
because both of the VMs are in the same project. So this private DNS should work
because we have configured this DNS zone in our project. So NS lookup.
So you can see it's working. If you don't configure DNS zone and NM record,
this won't work and there is no use of then doing this private service connect. That's why private zone and NM record is
necessary. But in your organization, you will see they may not use Google DNS. they will use their existing DNS servers
on prem or maybe on another cloud but the purpose is same it's the purpose is to just route this custom API to the
custom IP which is configured in the endpoint so you you can correlate to that so I think our lab setup is done
let's go to command open four tabs it says tab one instance one tab 2 instance
two we already have we open more two because we have to run some TCP dump also
tab three and tap four. Set the project in each one of them
here also because we are using dev root project which is my first project. Okay.
Now here I want to log to
okay let's take it from our CLI in tab three I need
sorry tab three I need instance one and again in tab four tab three I need
instance one. Okay. So the command is here gcloud comput such instance one
[Music] too many tab I'm sorry. So tab three I'm adding instance one
and later in tab four I will add instance two.
So I have four tabs. Tab one is instance one. Let me clear
tab two instance two. Tab three again instance one
and tab 4 instance two. So whatever the requirement for this lab is now set up.
Let's go and verify existing GS util behavior. So from tab 4 which is PS
instance to start TCP dump and monitor DNS traffic. So this is the command to do a TCP dump sudo root user TCP dump
verbose all information I need on interface ens4. So if I go to last tab
which is instance 2 because it says from tab 4 instance to start. So if I do a IP address so my 10.0.04
is configured on ENS4. You see only one interface because we have choose only default. By default, it will choose only
one nick nic. So in this case ENS4 is there. That's why I have used ENS4 and I
will monitor all the traffic on this interface on port 53. So let's start
this dump. So it will start listening to this. Now inspect the bucket storage
bucket name DNS lookup from tab 2 because tab 2 is also
for instance two. So here you need to specify your bucket name. I already have
this somewhere. Yeah, this one.
Okay. So bucket name is now stored as a bucket name. And now from this command we do debug gsutily debug ls. So we try
to connect to this uh bucket from using gsut command. But we also debug the logs
what we are getting. Okay, inspect the gsut debug. First of all, we do we try
to connect to this bucket but hyphen d debug is on. What are the parameters we need? We will see here.
We have to check. Okay. So, it has given too many outputs.
Let's see what it says. Forbidden.
Somehow it is not able to connect.
So what you need to check is you need to check for this send and reply. So look
for reply send. Okay. Send is get and reply is
HTTP 1.1 orbidden. So it is not able to access this VM is not able to access
your storage bucket. And what's the reason? because it says compute this
does not have storage object list access to the Google APIs. So the the service
account which is used to create this virtual machine don't have access to list the storage. So let's go to cloud
IM cloud IM service account.
Delete this open SA this I created.
So we need to look for default service account. So default service account is this one compute engine default service
account. So we have not picked any custom service account. So this is the service account which our VMs are
currently using. So go to IM
and to this service account add a access
select a role
give and for now I'm giving editor role to this service account to this project
so I don't but you should give specific role policy was out of date. The version of
the policy we are currently living is updated. The following changes have been
something happened. Okay. So maybe I have deleted the service account
that's why. Let's refresh it and then try
access first and now to this service account I am
assigning I am assigning a role of ASIC editor.
Save. So this service account is now editor of this project. It can access anything.
Let's policy updated. Okay. So this service account is now editor of this project. You should be able to access
the bucket. Now let's so from this command I am calling this bucket from this VM and this VM is configured with
the default service account. So initially the default service account was not having the cloud storage bucket list permission. So that's why I added
IM role saying this uh default service account is now editor of this project.
So we should do anything. So let's debug this again. So this time if you see it
has sent a get request and reply is estable 200. Okay. So now reply has
come. But the same time now go here in this
project and see what IPs it has used to connect with storage.google googleis.com
to connect to this I the ANM record is 209 all the requests you see so 17217 so
every time it tried to connect to the Google storage.gooaps.com google.com it has
used some IPs which is not part of our VPC so definitely it's not a private IP
so but I don't want this use case so this was the first test from this VM 2
so we because we have done this test from VM2 right so from VM2 due to the
cloudnet because this VM don't have public IP external IP if you see here
if I go to compute engine VM M instance
this this both the VMs don't have any external IP address so this communication is happening due to
cloudnet but everything was okay uh on external IP also public IP our VM was able to
connect to our cloud storage and we got HTTP 200 okay so everything was good
let's go to so I have I have added here something like you should get is HTTP1
and 1.1200. Okay, it means everything is good. You have configured
everything correctly. Now the main part of our lab start from here from the tab four verify. Okay, DNS record we already
verified all IPs were public IPs. So we verified that. Now modify GST behavior.
Now we will modify the GS utility behavior. Recall in the previous step you created a private DNS zone and a
record we created. Okay, map to the PSC endpoint IP address. In the following step, we'll now control how GS util
behaves by updating the VM voto file on the PSA instance one. Now, by default,
your virtual machine will use that storage.googleap.com
only, right? Every time it wants to connect to your storage bucket. But if you want your VM to not use that uh
default storage.google.com, google.com instead use the custom API which you have created API name then you have to
modify the VM boto file okay so where to view the VM boto file it is stored under
etc/ boto cfg now I am because vm2 is okay
this v2 is intended to go via cloudnet so we don't change anything there for vmm vm1 it should go via PSC endpoint we
have to check for / etc
ls do ls and you will see something called as a boto here boh ch right if you do a cat so this is
the configuration service account it should take default API version 2
default project ID so this is the default configuration and that's why it is always read to service google.com but
now we update the boto configuration using nano vi editor ensure to copy We paste all entries we will put a
credential column and says GS host is storage dot - P. So this is our custom
the primary this is our custom API name which we have created in private DNS right so if
you add this in file then it won't directly go to service. Google instead
it will use your custom Google API which you have created for private service
connect. Let's do a vi botocfg.
Okay. Go to the last line.
Put i for insert. And here add all this as it is. Make
sure everything is captured. And do escape.
And then
W Q read only option is set. Okay.
For that I should have edited this using sudo
because I have not added sudo that's why it's not allowing me to do the changes.
Okay now okay it is saved now if I do a cat
again. So now you see with these two configuration we have our credential configuration as well which says point
the GS utility to storage PSC endpoint.p.googleaps.com
which we have already added as ENM record within our private DNS zone. So
this we have done verify the updated GS utility lookup
behavior. For that first of all we have to set the TCP dump so that it will capture everything. So TCP dump is a
utility. So tab one and three is for instance one. So in one instance in one
tab I am uh like starting the TCP dump. So all packet on port 53 which is a DNS
packet will get captured and we see it no such device exist because we don't
have this port as a so let's verify which port is there. Always verify because you may be using
different flavors of Linux and this port number may change. So somebody some will
have E0 some will have ENS4s. So always use whatever
Linux version you have used according to that.
Okay. So listening on ENS4 link type this and this. So all port all traffic
on port 53 will be listened using this is a very useful command in troubleshooting. Now I am into this VM.
Let's go back to our instance. And now from here
I will do the same thing. I will go bucket name eco bucket name to our CLI
in instance one. Okay. And then call this bucket with debug. And let's
see what happened.
So reply is HTTP 200. Okay. So successfully we are able to communicate with our bucket. No permission issues
and anything because we already added permission. And in tab three if I go and check what IP this time it has taken. So
if you see the first packet PSC instance - 1
has gone to Google internal domain
to show us the IP This
why it's not showing? Let's see. Because it's able to communicate.
Let's do it again. Again. It was able to reach
the instance one, right? Yeah. Okay. Instance one only.
You simply dump them.
Maybe here also we can see something. Yeah, you see STBS storage PSC endpoint.p.googleapsi.com.
So whenever it's doing a get connection, it is requesting a storage psy.p.googleapi.com.
But if you go to this, whenever it was doing a get connection, it was doing to storage.googleapis.com.
So this also verifies this. And here somehow it's not showing, but like this it has shown the public IPs, right? So
that should show the private IPs when it wants to connect.
TCP dump is not working somehow on this interface.
Let's do NS lookup and then see.
Let's look up for this storage.
It's it's not responding actually this TCP dump on this interface
ENS4
So you should see something like this. Uh in this output you should see this IP like our IP should be there. Sudo TCP
dump ENS4
to show this IP private endpoint IP but somehow it's not showing but we have already verified that uh this has been
working. So if I go here again
I do maybe we are doing it again and again it's not going to the DNS server it's caching things that can happen
Okay. But our configuration is good because we have done the similar step for both the VMs. It's not like uh we
have and this is the again another way to verify which I have shown you like uh from the instance from the tab one you
can do ns lookup and this will verify that your storage is cloud storage now
listening to this private IP and that's why you are able to communicate with your bucket right so in the request also
in debug section we can see that uh while making a get request it is
requesting storage PSC endpoint.p.googleapis.com and but for this case while requesting a
get it has requested storage.google pio in case of cloudnet because we have updated the boto configuration here and
it's pointing to our private endpoint IP and that's why it's working and this is
the proof that the reply is 200. Okay. Yeah. So that's all like uh
we have covered pretty much everything. So we have successfully tested using PSC we can point a Google APIs on private IP
of our choice and we don't route the request to the internet which adds extra layer of security and when you are doing
this lab maybe due to this VM issues or something maybe have to reboot this VM whenever you do a TCP dump it should
show you this IP as A&M record and it will definitely show because we have
already seen our request has pointed to our custom Google API. Okay. So that
proves that our configuration is okay. we are able to connect. And that's all. That's the last part of
our today's video. Uh we'll meet in the next class and we'll see what next. Thank you very much
for your time. Have a nice day. Bye.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------

45 GCP Security#####

Transcript


So let's see where we were like last weekend.
So I open this slide. So we discussed about private service connect overview and then lab on using private service
connect to connect privately to Google API. So we have seen like how using private service connect we can privately
connect to any APIs and we have done lab also. So basically
the APIs most of the Google APIs are public IP address so that anybody can
reach to them. Uh but sometimes whenever you are working with a sensitive or
secured environment it's not recommended to open connection to the internet. Right?
In that scenario this is very helpful. I have seen like in enterprises also whenever suppose
a secure workload try to reach some Google APIs so it's not recommended every time to use public facing IPs
external IPs because it can u associate some risk with that right most of the
times like it will flow through Google network also but still if I want that my
connectivity should not go outside my VPC network there can be some compliance requirement,
security requirement. So in that case we can go with this private service connect to privately access Google APIs.
Now as we were discussing this APIs we came across different types of uh private
service connect. So I just wanted to uh go through them somewhere we may have
link private service connect. So let's open it and we go through the different types of private service connect like uh
I will close this old one now and I will jump to today's. So today's I have uh
added these two point because private service connect is very crucial as a in network security or infra in
infrastructure security engineer we should be aware of it so that we can design it. So private service connect
types. So this is something which we'll discuss today. First we have seen yeah
this we were discussing like how creating an endpoint from consumer VPC. So this lab we have done like uh one of
the VM and endpoint and it has private using private service connect how securely you can connect to Google ABS.
There are others producers PPC services like Google services, third party services, intraorganization services
like uh from one organization to other organization also you can connect. Now
private service connect types. Private service connect is available in different types that provide different capabilities and modes of communication.
Service producers publish their application to consumers by creating private service connect services. Okay.
service consumer access those private connect services directly through one of these private service connect types.
Okay. So the producers publish the services and as consumer we consume
those services right but to consume the services there are few types which we'll discuss today. The first one is private
service connect endpoint which we have seen labs on we create endpoint. That endpoint will have an IP address and
through that IP address we securely connect to uh the services like last
time we have seen a Google API which is also form of publish services. So
this we already discussed like endpoints are deployed by using forwarding rule. We create a forwarding that provide the
consumer an IP address that is mapped to the private service connect service. So using that private IP which relies or
which reside under your VPC you connect to your uh services like uh I go to
diagram drawing PCA and then private service
connect interface
and this is for today anyway I don't I think we have any design for
this. Okay, no issues. We already have here. So like this we created endpoint.
We give this public. So our intention was that our traffic should remain in
our VPC like we should not connect with anything any endpoint which is outside our VPC. So that's why we have created
an endpoint within VPC assigned an IP address. If you remember, we added one IP address and that IP
address was being used. So if I go to
slides, maybe I will have something there. Yeah, I have it. Yeah, this one I was
looking for. So what what we did is we created a VPC network last time. Inside
this VPC network, we created one region, US Central one. Inside the same re uh region we have two VMs VM1 and VM2
and we created a scenario where VM1 when he tried to access the cloud storage API we made a custom API using cloud DNS and
whenever this VM1 wanted to access this cloud storage API he will go through this endpoint IP 1010.10
10. So this is the endpoint IP and VM2 was connected to NAT so it can reach to
internet and that's why this VM does not need to connect with private service. So this was our lab scenario only. So one
VM will go directly on internet and connect with public IP and another VM will securely connect to that API using
private IP and in this scenario you see your VM just know about this 10.10.10
which we reserved under VPC. So this VM is highly secure now. It has never reached to an endpoint which is outside
this VPC. Correct? But for this for the VM2 it is directly communicating with
the storage API public API. So this may be something sometimes not recommended
and at that time you should suggest this private service connect endpoint solution to client. So this was one of
the type which we discussed already last time. So this was private service connect
endpoint. So this is what discussed. Now the second type is second type is private service connect endpoints. So
sorry backends. So one was endpoint other was other is back ends. Backends are as the name suggests it's something
related to load balancer. So in load balancer we have seen front end back end. So front end is something which is
exposed to like users or external worlds or for
internal load balancer internal users like parties who are interested to access that service and backends where
actual VMs or the compute sits. So so this means backends are
deployed by using network endpoint group. So if you want to expose something group of network or something
you can use network endpoint group that let consumer direct traffic to their load balancer before reaching a private
service private service. In this case it's just the same as our endpoint but
in endpoint we have seen there was a standalone connectivity right it's not about in load balancer we have not
involved there but in this case of back end we involve load balancers
and third one is service producer can initiate connection to service consumer by using private service connect
interfaces. This one private service connect interface provide birectional communication and can be used in the
same VPC network as endpoints and backends. So we'll see in more
details about this. First of all endpoint we have already seen. Uh let's go to back end. So what what will happen
in back ends is suppose this is a consumer organization under which we have a consumer project and consumer VPC want to consume the services. So it will
instead of creating endpoint it will create a back end with the help of custom consumer load balancer. So
suppose hundreds of clients are there. So they will create a load balancer. Front end will be exposed to those
clients and back end will be created as a permit private service connect.
Now again in the producer organization there can be setup of service attachment.
Now producer load balancers and multiple producer services will be there which can also sit behind load balancers.
Instead of uh placing endpoints which is a standalone single IP, you can create a
back end and like connect multiple private service connect
to those. Now so so what we have seen is
like uh in back end instead of using endpoint we use load balancer backends. Now the third one is interfaces which is
completely different that's why I want to discuss more on it and we'll do a lab on it as well. A private service connect
interface is a special type of network interface that refers to a network attachment. So this private service
connect interface it's a special type of network interface which refers to as a network attachment. So in this diagram
if you see there will be a consumer organization within consumeration there will be
consumer project then consumer VPC then we have a consumer subnet. So here you will create a network attachment in the
consumer side then with the help of private service connect you will connect to private service connect interface. So
at producer side you will create this interface and there will be standard network interface. So
this complete setup will be done on a virtual machine which is having a two different nick network interface card.
So one network interface will be assigned with the IP address of the consumer subnet so that these two can
reach on their private network and the second network interface substandard
will be assigned to producer VPC so that this VM has access to both this VM can
communicate with consumer VPC as well as anyway it's already in producer VPC so
it can communicate. So there are multiple benefits of doing this. Uh like a service producer can
create a private service connect interface and request a connection to a network
attachment. So a service producer can create a private service connect interface and request a connection to a
network attachment. If the service consumer accept the connection, Google cloud allocate the
interface and IP address from a subnet in the consumer VPC network that's specified by the network attachment. The
VM of the private service connect interface has a second standard network interface that connect to the producer
VPC network. So to simplify it, let's go and refer our diagram.
So what will happen is suppose you are having organization within organization you are having a consumer VPC and a
producer VPC. For example, uh you want to consume some services from this
producer VPC like data analytics anything. So what you will do is
you will create a this private service connect network attachment. So what will happen is after
you create a private service network attachment and then you create a
this a VM here private service connect VM. This private service connect VM will have two interfaces Ethernet 1 and
Ethernet 0. So suppose Ethernet zero is configured with standard network interface which is in this producer VPC
subnet. So definitely when we create a VM we assign a IP address to this VM. So standard means this VM Ethernet zero
will have the subnet associated with producer VPC but the second one Ethernet
one which is a private service connect network interface. So this IP will belongs to this subnet interface subnet.
So why so is because this IP belongs to this consumer VPC so that they can
communicate with each other and in this case your producer can also talk with your consumer and consumer can also talk
with producer. So this is a birectional connectivity here which is not the case with endpoints and backends. So the main
difference here it's a birectional uh communication and there is one more
benefit here. If suppose your consumer VPC is connected to some
other VPC or onremise network in that case also your producer VPC can reach till that
also if you if your firewall rule allows that. So this gives this producer
network complete visibility like if a producer wants to access your consumer
network so you you can do it using private service connect interface. So always remember in private service
connect interface type we have three type of uh sorry private service connect types we have three types one is
endpoints. Second one is backends and third one is interface. So endpoint and
back ends are unidirectional like their connectivity will be initiated by consumer like from this side and it will
terminate on producer. But the third one which we'll discuss today is more advanced. It's a birectional
communication between consumer and producer. So it can help you to achieve
multiple scenarios like sometimes there will be scenario like you are taking a help of a third party uh software and
that third party software wants to communicate with you also. Every time it won't be a case that you want to
communicate with that third party software only. Sometimes the third party software also wants to communicate with
your infrastructure to share some logs, share some acknowledgement, anything anything can be there. So in that case
this is very helpful and this is very practical solution provided by Google and that's why it's definitely a must uh
learning and for our PCA course as well. Let's see what's next.
Okay. So let's follow our private service connector. We have seen one is private service connect endpoint.
Endpoints are deployed by using forwarding rules. Private service connect backends. Backends are deployed by using network endpoint group. So here
we use NEG network endpoint group. Later we do one lab on NG also so that
you guys are more clear on that. For now just remember that backends uses load
balancer and and that load balancers are tagged to network endpoint groups. Now
private service connect interface. A private service connect interface is a special type of network interface that
refers to a network attachment. So special type of a interface. This is
private service connect that that refers to a network attachment. So this
interface and network attachment they are like it's a complete configuration
like you create a interface and that interface will refer to a network attachment. What do you mean by refer
means it will take a IP from your interface subnet only. So this interface
which you will create in producer VPC. So in this case we are going and creating a interface in producer VPC
which will follow our network like PSC network attachment which is our internal
subnet we can say. So that's why it says refers to a network attachment a service producer
can create a private service connect interface and request a connection to the network attachment.
So in this case what will happen is because you won't have in practical scenario you won't have access to the
producer network right producer can be anyone it's a third party organization or onremise there you may have the
access but sometimes it there will be a case that you don't have access to producer network so what they will do is
they will create a private service connect interface and request a connection to a network attachment and
they will request a connection what the network attachment using some link is
there so you will you URI it says uh unique unique resource identifier. So
you will send send them the URI and they will request that okay I am trying to
create a private service connect interface. Please accept my connection and provide me an IP address. So
producer will request it to you. If the service consumer accept the connection now it's upon you. You can set it to
manual accept or you can auto accept it everything. But most of the time
it's recommended that we should set manual ex exception. So as admin I
should accept it then only uh one of the IP will be assigned to that producer sub
producer interface so that he can communicate with me. Google cloud allocates the interface and IP address
from a subnet in the consumer VPC network that's specified by the network attachment. So in this case suppose this
producer VPC it's uh belongs to Paulo Alto for example and they want to connect with us. So what they will do is
they will create a private service connect interface and they will ask
for approval to the private service connect network attachment. How they
will know about our network attachment? We will share them a URI unit unique resource. It's a link uh basically we'll
share it to them and once they request uh this uh if they are also using Google
cloud then the process will be same they have to use Google cloud because it's a internal service right private service
connect so they will request us a private service connect uh
like approval approval sort of thing so as we have already provided them with the URI that request will reflect under
this private service connect network attachment section And there we can approve it. Once approved automatically
one of from this interface subnet one IP will be assigned to this PSC network
interface as we have not used any IP of this. So we are assuming that2 will get assigned. We'll see that which IP get
assigned. It will be this only because we are doing a press installation and
the other interface will producer will automatically configure according to his subnet. So producer will have some
subnet right under producer VPC that 1021.0. So he will assign 10.20.1.2
to this another interface because this VM which is in producer network should have connectivity to producer subnet
also. That's uh the required thing. Then we have cloud firewall rules. Then we'll have cloudnet. So we'll see how why
cloudnet is also required here. Same at uh consumer VPC side we will have firewall rules because we will control
the traffic using firewall rules here only because this producer can communicate with
consumer. Now it's a producer network right? It's not internal network. So we should have some control like what he
can access or what not. That's why we cloud firewall rules is must here. Now in our topology what we'll do is
so I hope you understood like what is the concept here. Now suppose a producer want to communicate with. So for that I
have created three VMs here. VM 1, VM2 and VM3 using three different subnets
consumer subnet one, consumer subnet 2 and three. If you see the subnet 192, 168, 20, 30 and 40. So these three
subnets and 10 is for interface subnet. So 190 to 168 series I kept at consumer
side and 10.20 series I kept at producer side. Now I have three scenarios here.
In one scenario, my producer VM should be able to access to VM1. Okay. So, this
is a eress flow from this VM. It will communicate to this VM P2 VM1 should be
allowed. VMP P to VM 2 should be blocked. So, I will create a firewall
rule to block that. And the third connection will be as I said it's a birectional. So, in this case, we also
check that functionality. VM3 will initiate a connection toward VMP and we'll see whether it is possible or not.
So it will be quite interesting to understand that between two different
VPC how to establish a connectivity without using VPC pairing or HAVP and
anything just on the basis of private service connect we will establish a biirectional connectivity between two
VPCs and that to privately. So let's
go to the next slide. So here we already seen that the this
producer VM will have two interfaces. One will be attached to private service connect interface which will be assigned
with the network attachment IP address interface and then standard network interface which will be in producer VPC.
So example use case you may be wondering like what will be the use case of doing this. So that's why I have captured this
one. An example use case for private service connect interface is manage service that need to initiate connection
to a consumer VPC network to access consumer data. Now suppose you are accessing some some of the manage
services through private service connect. Okay. So let's list what are
the manage services. What GCP manage
services we can access using
ESC private services connect in Google cloud
allows you to access variety of Google manage services privately and securely without exposing them to all public
internet. This include accessing Google APIs and services as well as service. So regional APIs, VPC, host of state, other
Google manage service. So what are the managed services? We are focused on wide range of services such as cloud SQL you
can use this to private service connect to securely connect to cloudsql, cloud
spanner and more they can be accessed. So these are few example of manage services. Now there can be a chances
like you are already accessing a managed services. So one of the many services will be analytics provided analytics
provided by Google. So data analytics. So at that case what will happen is
sometimes this analytics may need some info from your consumer side. But maybe
it can happen that consumer don't have the databases in it. It is again uh tied
to some other VPC where database is sitting. So this this type of connectivity is also possible here. Now
see the complete path. An example use case for private service connect interface is manage services that need to initiate connection to a consumer VPC
network to access consumer data. Now this analytics we are using a managed services called
analytics. So definitely data analytics. In this case uh this private service
connect interface got connection to consumer VPC. Okay. Using private service connect endpoint. Now the
database is not sitting in consumer VPC. Here database is sitting in some different VPC database producer VPC but
this consumer VPC and database producer VPC is already having connectivity by
some net routing it's already there. So
if your consumer VPC is able to reach database VPC it we can say that your
analytic can also reach because this is transit transitive. So analytics can if
analytics can reach to consumer it can also reach to database. So whatever connectivity is available to consumer
VPC this is capable of reach to that. So that make it more powerful because
if suppose you are using a private service connect between producer and uh
consumer private service connect interface and you are having some of the
services in onremise but your consumer VPC is already connected to onremise then your producer can also utilize
those services which are sitting in onremise. So you can see how fast it can cover. So the service might also need
access to the data or services that are available in a consumer's on-premise network. As as I said, it it is not
always the case that the services will be available in this consumer VPC only. It can reside sometimes in consumers
onremise network also through a VPN or cloud interconnect connection and that consumer VPC and on-remise network may
be connected using VPN or cloud whatever the possible connection types are available or from a third party service.
There may be the cases like consumer VPC is connected to third party services and
it is consuming some third party services where this analytics should happen. So in that case also it is
possible a private service correct interface connection can fulfill all the
of this requirement as as I said. So below figure describe the
network configuration of a managed service that provide analytics. So this manage services which is consuming we
are we as a consumer we are consuming this analytics producer services. The
analytic services can initiate connection to the consumer VPC definitely network by using a private service connect interface. A private
service connect endpoint in the consumer network lets the analytic service initiate connection to a database
service. Now you can create one more private service connect endpoint which can help this uh analytics producer to
connect with database so that analytics can be done on the database.
So a private service endpoint in the consumer lets analytic service initiate the connection to a database service and other VPC network. Traffic from analytic
service to the database services passes through the consumer network. So the traffic from the analytics services to
the database services passes through the consumer network which lets the consumer monitor and provide security for traffic
between the two services. Now the as I said it will transit so it will transit using consumer VPC. So consumer VPC will
have all the controls like what connection should be allowed what should be blocked. So that's why he can use firewall rules or he can administer he
can monitor consumer VPC can do all those things which lets consumer monitor and provide security for traffic between
the two services. Okay. So in this case it's useful. So this is a practical use case which we discussed. Now
we are going to build a comprehensive private service connect interface architecture that utilizes cloud firewall rules to allow and deny
connectivity from the producer to the consumer compute as illustrated below. So we have already discussed most of the
things. So we'll have we'll create first two VPCs consumer VPC and producer VPC. In consumer VPC we create three subnet.
Consumer subnet one, consumer subnet 2, consumer subnet 3. And in producer VPC, we create one subnet which is a producer
subnet. So first thing first let's create whatever we discussed. We create VPC and we create subnet. Then later we
will see what more things we need to configure so that it won't be a too much thing to be configured at once.
So we'll create a single PSC network attachment in the consumer VPC resulting in the following use cases. So create a
firewall rule to allow access from as I said VMP can access to VM1. This VMP can
access to VM1. Firewall rule to deny access from VMP VMP to VM2. So by default everything
will be allowed. So that's why we will create a firewall rule to block this. And then we create a firewall rule to allow access from VM3 to VMP. Right?
VM3. So that is something scenario. This will be needed for testing. So that's
why I highlighted it here. We'll perform below actions in the lab. Create a network attachment. So what we are going
to do is we will create a network attachment. We see how to create a network attachment. Using a network attachment to create a PSC interface. As
I said you first you have to create a network attachment. You will get a URI. You share that URI with the producer so
that they create PSC interface with the help of that URI and then you can accept
or reject it. Establish communication from producer to the consumer. We we will establish that communication and
then we will allow access using firewall rules. Below resource and permission are needed like I am permission, computer
network admin is needed, instance admin is needed and security admin is needed. I'm organization administrator so I will
have all this with me. Now follow below shell commands to
prepare the lab topology. So let's open it. I have captured all cell command
this one file. So we just utilize it and prepare our
lab. So let's start it.
Either we can use my non-organizational project or let's use organizational project.
So this one is my organization project.
So basically I have two projects. One is without organization and one with this admin. So this is managed by Rohit new
online which is my workspace admin
workspace account and one is directly by Gmail which you can also set up.
So let's okay we are having our free trial.
So inside this organization if I show you maybe we use it in our future labs also that's why I prepared it today. So
within our organization we have a folder called PCA learning. Inside PCA learning we have two project PCA 1 and PCA2.
We'll use PCA2 today because I already enabled comput engine API here this
morning. So let me delete this. This is VM which I left open.
Okay. But this is a blank project. If you go to VPC network,
nothing is there. Instead of default network, IP address
will get deleted. Post VM is created. Let's wait.
Sometime it takes time to delete VM messy.
I just want to delete it. So avoid confusion.
If it's deleted now if I go to VPC the IP which we are consumed by it was also
released VPC network we don't have any VPC network except default that is good let's start first of all we set some
project variables like we do a g-cloud config list project how many projects are there we open x
g-cloud shell close this
Okay. So list the project
G-Cloud project list
this one.
So we have this two PC1 and PCA2. I want to use PCA2 for today's lab. So we will soon do G-Cloud config set
project.
Okay. So I set the project environment. Let's copy this project here. That's why
I said you have to change the project. Don't use the one which I give. So
according to your free trial can use the project ID. So if I do a eco project ID
every time I can reuse it this variable. Okay. Now create a consumer VPC. Let's create a consumer VPC because here in
diagram you see we have a consumer VPC first. Set this consumer VPC. We have three subnets. First of all let's create
consumer VPC with G-Cloud compute network. Create consumer VPC under the project this which I have set already.
And subnet mode is custom. We need to create a custom mode VPC. Auto mode is not needed. Default mode.
So we create custom submit.
Now once it is created we create three subnet consumer subnet one, consumer subnet 2 and consumer subnet 3 as per
our diagram. So we create these three subnet 1 2 3. Let me copy it and I will create in one go
all in US central one. So network is created. Now it's time to
create subnet and we monitor it using GUI. So our consumer VPC is created. One
subnet is also created. We go to subnet and monitor it. So subnet one is created.
I'll wait for some time. It will create all
two is getting created. After that, let's see what's there. Create a private service connect network
attachment subnet. So, this is it is not like different subnet.
It's just a normal subnet you create, you just name it or interface subnet.
So, it's not anything different. You can just if you compare G-Cloud compute, so
it's the same command, right? Same command. Then you give a name which is interface subnet because one subnet we
have to reserve for it right interface subnet interface subnet 19260 10.0/28 0/28 then we have specified the project
here we specify the range as 10 we are using 10 here 20 here 30 here 40 here
and then in which network we are creating it in under consumer VPC same
region US central all deployment will be under
okay all three subnets are created now I'm creating fourth subnet which is
interface subnet which will be used for network attachment and from that network
attachment subnet only one IP will be given to interface which is in a producer network okay this is done now
cloud router and cloudnet configuration let's create a cloud router and cloudnet for any netting things if you want to
use so this is a command we have created multiple times create cloud router or
net anything this is the name and in which network you want to create consumer VPC region US central one then
uh routers NAT then create NAT table net sorry net device for that I have created
it multiple time not to discuss more there now enable IP I want to enable IP
because this the VM which I will create won't have a public IP address see I
have given no IP so I want identity aware proxy to connect to to the VM which don't have
external IP addresses to make our environment more secure
And now create consumer VM instances. So how many VM instances we need to create? We need to create three VM instances. I
and I have not assigned public IP external IP to this VMs. So that's why I have created a IP SSH rule. So that IP
tunneling using IP tunneling will do SSH to this VMs. Okay. So
first VM1 in US central one using consumer subet.
Okay. Similarly
VM2 in US central 1 A and then using
consumer subnet 2. So VM 1 in consumer subnet one, VM2 in consumer subnet 2 and VM 3. So I've created three VMs in three
different subnet for testing purposes. One VM is connect configured. You see
there is no external IP. Go to compute we monitor it from here and third VM
will be created in consumer subnet 3. So we have total three VM at consumer side and one VM at pro side which we create
later. So VM2 is also created with only internal IP. No external IP is there.
Now VM3 and let's see.
So there is one more command command which I gather like if suppose you want to obtain and store IP address of the
internal instances VM instance. So this is the command G-Cloud compute instance describe VM and provide the zone and
pipe grip then network IP. So if you do this you will get only the IP address not
other details. So it can be helpful right if you want to store them which IPs your
VMs got. So uh your VM 2 got 20.2, VM3
got 30.2 and VM sorry VM1 got 20.2, VM2 30.2 and VM3 20.2 which is as per the
design right 20.2 30.2 and 40.2 Perfect. Now, private service connect network
attachment. Network attachment are regional resources that represent the consumer side of the private service connect interface. You associate a
single subnet with the network attachment and the producer assign IPs to the private service interface from that subnet. The subnet must be in the
same region as the network attachment. The network attachment must be in the same region as the producer side. So
make sure you have the the same region at both the end consumer
and producer end. So if I go to private service connect I want to show you here
where is the network attachment if somehow you want to see how to configure it using GUI. So one is a connected
endpoint which you want to create create an endpoint like we did last time you can
create here or there is a option of network attachment you see there is
option to create a network attachment let me do it from here because we can do it using the same command it
is it will work so G-Cloud compute
where is G here okay G-Cloud compute network attachment create PSC network attachments And so this is the name
we'll use this name. Now which network we'll use? We'll use only consumer. We have created only consumer yet. Now the
region part is crucial. All our resources on US central one we created US central subnet. So which subnet we
will use here? Subs. Consumer subnet one is for test. Consumer subnet 2 is also for test. Consumer subnet 3 is also for
test. So interface subnet from this subnet
from this subnet I want to create PSC network attachment so that one of the IP will be assigned to PSC network
interface so let's select interface subnet now connection preferences accept
connection for selected project automatically accept connection for all project as I said you can set auto or
you can set accept connection for selected project now here you will have to add the project in command what is
there is region is you have provided the region connection preferences accept manual. So by default it's in manual
only and then producer accept list. In the accept list we have added the same
project in which because we are not using two different project. If you are using different project for consumer and producer you'll have to add if you are
using same project also you will have to mention the project. If you don't mention the project it won't accept the connection and then the subnet. So here
in GUI let me add the accepted project.
So what is the accepted project? I have only this project. I have not used any other. So I will add. So the request
will come from the same project. So this way you accept it and create network
attachment.
It's created. Okay. Now connection in if you go to connection policies.
Sorry it's it's different thing. So it's it's it's created. And now let's go back
and see. Now if you want to see it in G CLI also you can see
like what things we have configured. So we have conf configured a network attachment called PSC network attachment
in the region US central and connection preferences accept manual in which we manually define the project ID from
where the producer will send the request and I have the same project for consumer and producer. So that's why I have given
the same project number. Now describe you can also describe it if you want to know more about this network attachment
G-Cloud compute network attachment describe PSC the name of the attachment and the reason. So if you do this you
get more details. So so here you will get this self link
right this is the self link. So this self link
will be used in as a URI as I said make a note of the PSC network attachment URI
that will be used by the producer when creating the private service connect interface. Now you have to make note of
this and you will have to send it to your producer if in case
it's a different party which is setting those things. Now create the now we'll do a producer setup. Consumer setup is
done. So what all things we have done is we created these three VMs. We created this interface subnet. We created PSC
network attachment also. URI is ready with us. We created only one firewall rule till now which is for IIP and we
created N also if needed. Now we'll create a producer VPC network first.
Let me clear it. Consumer side is done. Now producer side create producer VPC.
So VPC is created. Now create producer subnet.
here also enable IP because the VM which we'll create we will not assign the IP
no address right we not assign the external IP I'm into it so let's create
IP for so that we can do IP tunneling to do SSH
Now I'm creating a VM without external IP address. So here one thing is to note sorry I
have created it using this uh CLI but uh
will be more good if I created it using GUI. You may have seen how.
So here you see that this VM got two internal IP addresses. So that's a catch. We have never created a VM with
two nicks. So let me go to compute engine VM instances.
So one this VM you see here this VM has nick zero and nick one. So let me delete
it and I will create it using because this things is interesting to make if
you are setting up a VM also in firewall VM inside
compute engine VM instances. So in that case also this multi-nick environment you may have to create one nick will
represent LAN other nick will represent LAN. So that's why I'm showing you using GI.
So this this you can encounter in organizations also
it delete it first then we create it using J
and problem is it takes too much time.
So you know the g-cloud command already now to create a multi. So what you have to do is you have to specify the network
attachment here. So everything is here only. So that's why this VM is actually
the private service connect interface. So that's why this VM is very crucial while setting up uh the producer side.
So this producer side everything lies within this VM only. So this VM has two nick. One nick is a private service
connect interface and another is standard. That's why I want to show you using GUI. Yeah, it's related. Let's
create instance called VM2.
We place it in US Central 1 and
name is already in use. It's saying but it's deleted already, right? So refresh it.
Okay, VMP is done. OS under networking.
So first interface I want to use it in producer VPC producer subnet that is
okay. Now external I don't need external IP
address. Okay. So that's why what I did is I created the first interface which is a which is in this
this zero normal interface which belongs to this producer VPC. That's it. And I
have disabled uh the external IP address. Done. Now I will add a network
interface. Now it is asking for a type what type of network interface you want to create a VPC network interface which
is standard VPC network interface which was the first one or the one which we create usually. So there are two type of
network interface always remember one is VPC network interface and another is private service connect interface. So
this time I want to connect it as a private service connect interface as the name suggest PSC interface. So that's
why select private service connect and here you will have to add that network attachment URL. Right? So the network
attachment URL is this one or what you can do is you can you have a command
describe. So run this command here
right and self link is this right here here till here. So this is the URI.
So as I was saying in theory like your producer will call that URI from their VM
and you have already set that if anything request coming from this project for private service connect
interface attachment accepted. So this is done.
The firewall setup is not available for multi-nick multiple network interface. That is okay. So now we have two
interfaces. One is producer VPC and one is PSC interface. Let's create it.
See three but we got do three this time. No issues
because we already created one. So the first chance was gone. So two we we are
not able to achieve two because we already created one using this CLI. So it will increment some somebody may ask
you you have created a subnet for the first time and you are creating a VM for the first time which IP it will take. So
always say two. So first it won't assign one one it not won't assign it will assign two. Then if
you delete it and create another it will assign three most of the time it will follow this pattern.
So our VMP is now ready. So our infrastructure is ready. Let's see what's next.
So we created a private service connect interface and we have seen how using a virtual machine we can create a private
service connect interface. Now multi-nick validation validate the PSC
interfaces configured with appropriate IP address. Vnick will be the producer subnet and nick one will be the consumer
subnet. So let to verify this in CLI there is a command G-Cloud compute network VM IP and so basically we are
just listing what are the IPs associated with this VM. So we know that two IPs are there. You see one side it's a
producer subnet and another side it's a consumer subnet. Our configuration was good.
Now we have to update the firewall rule. So firewall rule will be updated according to our scenario. Access from
VMP to VM1. The source range is your so now one thing to remember is your VMP is
sitting in producer network but for you your VM is sitting in producer network
right but for you it's not this IP 10.2 to it because you are using private service connect. So for you this is the
source. So your interface subnet is the source. Producer subet is not the source. So just remember that. So any
communication which is happening is happening using this interface subnet only. So that's why it's more secure. We
never use producer network. We always use our own internal network to connect
vice vers to connect birectionally. So whenever you open the firewall rule,
whenever you are using a connection from producer to like VM to VM1, producer to
consumer, the source will become your interface subnet and destination will become your whatever the producer subnet
you want to consumer subnet we want to reach. So in this case I want to reach from VMP producer subnet to VM1 which is
our consumer subnet one. So consumer subnet 1 is 20, right? Consumer subnet is so that's why we create this rule.
Let's go and create first firewall rule. As per scenario include shell create an
ingress rule allow overrides the implied deny ingress rule for traffic from PSC
network attachment submit. So there is some uh by default deny not some always
there if you create a custom VPC all ingress traffic will be denied and eress will be allowed but we want
communication between our internal subnets. So that's why we are raising this firewall rule which says allow
anything from this subnet because this is our internal subnet. So there is no harm to allow anything ingress from this
subnet. Now create a firewall rule to deny access from VMP to all ranges.
By default a low priority rule which we are creating that anything from this VMP you see it's
a low priority rule 6534. So it's a baseline we are saying whatever we allow will be allowed other
than that will be disabled because as I said initially if you create this type of setup anything will be accessible to
this VMP in your consumer VPC. So that's why we are creating a higher priority rule we created to ingress but we create
a low priority rule so that whatever I write above this rule will get allowed otherwise if there is no allow rule
everything should get denied. So this is some baseline hardening we are doing
not specific to lab but in organization you may need it. Now create create a cloud firewall rule to allow access from
VM3 to VMP. So we need access from VM3 which is source subnet 192 16840.0
source subnet 192 16840.0 and destination is 192 168 10.0. Yeah. So we
create this rule
and then finally rules are created. So we have all the rules set.
Now we have to do some Linux routing here. Create create a Linux route for the PSC interface. From the PSC
interface instance, configure Linux route to allow producer communication to the consumer subnet. Now suppose let me
open a new tab for this
cloud config set
project
two we are interested. So we have one uh
only one VM at producer side right. So but this VM has two interfaces right
this VM has two interfaces. Now where it should route the traffic. So definitely if if you are having more than one link
so you have to define routing. For defining routing, we'll first login into
already we set the project, right?
G-Cloud config project
list. Oh.
Yeah. So our active configuration is
Now let's
already did this.
Okay, understood it. We have not defined this. That's why it's creating
the issue. We have not defined the variable. My
bad. Now it will work. And I'm using variable without defining it.
We are doing SH2VM. Let's see whether it happens or not.
Yeah. So we already have that uh AP firewall rule that allow this
connection. So we can do a IPA to check the IP
addresses configured here. You'll see ENS4 is the first interface which is belongs to provider IP and ENS5 is the
second interface which belongs to consumer uh interface IP which is a network attachment interface subnet. Now
to see a route table you can do IP route show in TBN.
So it says default via 10.20. So it's taking its own network as a default
route right and then all customer subnets this via 19210.1.
So these are some default routing but we want to add our own routing first. So first of all we have to find the gateway
find the gateway of your PSC interface. So what is the gateway? So this is the
gateway of our PSC interface. This is the command curl http metadata Google internal compute metadata v1 instance
network interface one gateway metadata flavor google and eos. So if you do this
command you will get the PSC interface gateway. So this is the gateway of our
internal side like this one this one. So first IP is always the gateway but still if you if you don't
are not sure you can use this command. So this is the gateway. Now what I want to do is I want to set a route. So if
this network wants to reach any of this subnet, it should follow this as a gateway 192 168 10.1. So this VM if it
wants to communicate with any of these consumer VMs, the gateway should be first IP of this interface up. Right? So
this command says the same. And we'll use ENS5. Why NS5? because our VM is
our interface consumer interface is on NS5 that's why so what do we do sudo IP
route add the first consumer subnet via gateway 10.1 second consumer subnet via
gateway 10.1 and third via gateway 1 on interface 5 this will make sure
that our consumer subnets are properly routed now We have a proper route
for our consumer subnet. That's why we have we are not relying on the system generated logs routes. We have added our
own. Now, now it's time for validation. So, let's validate whatever we did is
working or not. Now, let's go first and everything is set up. VM is now this VM
is enabled to route traffic to these three VMs. We have firewall rules in
place. One firewall rule say VMP can communicate within VM1. Another firewall
rule say VMP cannot communicate with VM2. And the last one says VM3 can
communicate to VMP. So we test these three scenarios. Validate the successful VMP to VM1. So I'm already in VMP which
is a provider VM. From here I will ping sorry I will do a curl to VM1 because we
already installed HTTPS servers. Apache servers on that while creating we added
a metadata script. So let's go to VMP. Here I am having VMT VMP open do a cur.
So you see HTTP 200. Okay. So connection is connected.
Welcome to the VM1 app server. It's saying connection is successful because we have a firewall rule in place and you
see using private service connect all this is happening. There is no intern uh external IP assigned to this virtual
machines. Now the second is validate VMP to VM2 connectivity which is should be blocked.
Let's see because we have a firewall to block. See it says trying it is not able
to communicate with your VM2. So VMP is not able to communicate with VM2 which is our requirement. Let's
close this. Now the third scenario is VM3 will communicate with VMP. So we have to log to the VM3 first. So
validate VM3. So first let's log to VM3. In the first shell this first shell here
I will log into VM3.
I'm into the VM3 IPA. So I am into the 192 168 40.2.
40.2 is VM3. From here I want to communicate to VMP.
uh so here what we'll do is but we don't have this 2 IP we have dot3 we know
because uh if I show you I'm already into the VMP if I do a IPA so as we have
done it twice so you will reach this producer network using this subnet You
cannot reach to that 10.20.13
or maybe we check that also pos.
It's reachable. Now let's try to reach
to this private IP. It is a producer own IP.
uh it won't be reached because whatever services we are intended to use inside
producer we we are reaching via our internal IP which is the interface in their subnet right so that's why we can
reach till this IP and they can use this uh Ethernet one to reach complete
consumer subnet and if any subnet is linked to this consumer also will be
reachable so that's that's a complete lab on private service connect
interface. So what we have done is we created network attachment.
We copied the URI or the self link of this network attachment and we shared it to the producer. So when the producer
was creating a private service connect interface so basically it's a virtual machine with two interface one standard
VPC interface and another is a private service connect interface. And when the
producer was creating that uh VM with the private service connect interface, it used the self link or the URI of our
network attachment. So that's why it says private service connect network interface refers to network attachment
and we already set it as a manual approval. So if I go to private
service connect.
So in network attachment
you see we connected project we have already added it as a accepted. Now you can do and reject this project so that
no future communication will be possible. But we want to have this communication. So that's why we have
created it. Now it's time to do a cleanup. So let's do a cleanup quickly
for jumping to the next part. Let me exit this VM.
I will utilize both the shell to make clean up quick.
cannot be made quick compute and VM instance.
Yeah, I will click here and maybe I'll delete these two.
So there are multiple components here but if you do it on your own you create these things and that will help you to
understand it in a much better way like uh how things are working here because
there are multiple components involved. So practice it two at least two times by
creating on your own. All these commands which I have provided will work well because I have tested all
these commands on my own and using those commands you can create your own topology.
So this is the sequence. First of all delete the VMs. Then delete the network attachment which you have created.
It's PMP delete first. Then only we can create network attachment because it's used Yeah.
So instances
okay so it's deleted. Let me delete this network attachment.
And then network and firewall rule I will delete later
because that you already know. So if you go to private service connect you won't see any network attachment. So remember
to delete this network attachment before deleting your subnets because you cannot
delete subnets without deleting this. It is already used there. So that's why I showed you the remaining thing is simple
like I will just uh add this once and maybe it will delete
or if not I will delete manually. Okay. So let's see what's next. So all validation steps are included in above
shell script. We already did you created the consumer infrastructure and you added a network attachment that allowed
the producer to create a multi-nick VM to bridge consumer and producer communication. You learned how to create firewall role in the consumer VPC
network that allowed connectivity to the instance in the consumer and producer VPC. So basically it was a
quite well uh worse lab which in have in multiple components and we have tested each components everything was working
fine. So the next part is network connectivity center. So this is also
like most of the times in interviews they will ask you have you worked on network connectivity center? So better
we should have some idea about that. That's why I've included is this. So we'll do a short session on this so that
we know what is network connectivity center if being asked. So network connectivity center is an orchestration
framework that simplifies network connectivity among spoke resources that are connected to a central management
resource called a hub. So network connectivity center deals with hub and
spoke topologies. You can say network connectivity center support the following types of spokes. You can
create different type of scope spokes spoke networks and you can create
connect those spoke network to a NCC hub. So this is more toward routing. So
suppose you don't want to suppose we have two VPC VPC A and VPC B. Now to
communicate with between these two VPCs like all routes because this PSC which we have seen it's it should not be used
for uh complete routing information right routing ch what we can say changes
like uh routing updates between two VPCs it is it is not designed for that it is
designed for accessing particular services. Now suppose there are two VPCs and now you want to connect those VPCs
so that you can interchange routes between them. So you can use either VPC pairing or you can use HAVPN between
those two VPCs so that you can transfer routes between those two VPCs or make
the communication happen. But if you want to go more uh like uh deeper and
you want to check how what other features are available within GCP to connect the VPC and if you are having a
large VPC network so from a VAN perspective you can utilize network connectivity center which is very
helpful. So first type of spoke is VPC spokes which we'll discuss in lab. Then
there is a producer VPC scope spoke NCC gateway spokes. Then hybrid spokes you
can connect HIVPN tunnels cloud interconnect wheel and attachment router appliance VMs. So this it's this is more
toward networking. So that's why we are not discussing more here but we should have some idea like why network
connectivity center is used and what is the hub and spoke. So you'll get some idea when we do lab. So with the hub and
spoke connectivity you can do the following. Connect multiple VPC network to one another. As I said the VPC
network can be located across different project in the same Google cloud organization or different organization.
So it's not like it should be part of same organization also different organation VPCs can also
talk with each other using VPC hub and spoke connect multiple VPC network to onremise or other cloud provider
network. You can also connect to onremise or other cloud provider like AWS and Azure. These external network
can be reachable through any type of hybrid spoke. These are the hybrid spoke. So definitely if you want to
reach to cloud or other cloud or onremise network you will have to use any one of these either HAVPN cloud
interconnect or router appliance VM. So sometimes what they do is they will create a virtual machine and on that
virtual machine they will install a router so that this router will deal with suppose you added a Cisco KVM
image. So as you do routing on premise you can do on that router also like in
Google cloud. So that's why it says router appliance VM. Use router appliance VM to manage
connectivity between your VPC network. Now you don't want Google to decide routing. You want to have your own
routing. So what you can do is between two VPCs you can connect this router appliance VM
or multiple VPCs. Use Google Cloud VPC network as an enterprise wide area network to connect network that are
outside of Google Google cloud. You can establish connectivity between your external site by using any type of
hybrid spoke. Yeah, hybrid spoke any type of hybrid spoke anything to
external will come under hybrid. This approach is known as side to side connectivity you can do. So this is more
toward routing as I said and you can you have much flexibility more flexibility to route your VPC traffic using this.
Now refer below Google documentation if you want to go deep into this you can always refer this documentation which
has a detailed about each spoke VPC spoke which we'll discuss today. Then producer VPC scope. If you have an
existing VPC spoke that consume a service from a producer network in another project through VPC network
pairing. You can make the service reachable by other spoke in your NCC hub by creating a producer VPC. So gateway
hybrid spokes are there. So multiple topology these are all
networking routing related things. So you can go through them if you want. But
if you want to have just a taste of like what NCC is, it will get cleared in the
lab which we do. And if you go want to go more deep, I have added the documentation link. So let's go and see
NCC VPC as a spoke. So inside NCC how VPC as a spoke will help us to
communicate between the two VPC. We'll take example of two VPC VPC 1 and VPC2 and we'll create a NCC hub and we'll
connect these two VPC so that VPC 1 is having all the routes of VPC2 and vice
versa so that they can reach to each other. So in this lab we'll explore how
NCC or short of NEPO connect center we I call it NCC afterwards. So in this lab
we explore how NCC can be used to establish intervp connectivity at scale. So this word is important right at
scale. We are not talking about any particular service anything every routes suppose it's a very big VPC we are
having a big organization where multiple VPC are 10 to 12 50 VPCs are there and you want to do routing so definitely you
will have to think of something like NCC as I said enterprisegrade van so you
have a big network you have multiple networks and you want to do a routing always think of network connectivity
center as a hub when user define a VPC as a VPC spoke
This enables them to connect it to multiple VPC network together via NCC hub. Now all the VPC spokes will be
connected to NC hub. So suppose VPC1 wants to communicate with VPC2. First it
will go connect with NCC hub. NCC hub will have routes of all VPCs which are
connected as spoke to it and then from there it can reach to VPC2.
NCC with VPC spoke configuration reduces the operational complexity of managing pair wise interv connectivity by VPC
pairing right so every time you do a VPC pairing it's it will be complicated if
you have multiple VPCs instead using a centralized connectivity management model and it provide other SD related
features also if you go more into the professional networking course recall that network connectivity center is a
hub and spoke control plane model for network connectivity management in a Google cloud it's a control plane manner
control plane model. So it decides how routing will run. It's not like your data will flow from spoke to hub and
then to hub. So it won't add any latency. It's just a control plane decision which will happen between hub
and spoke. The hub resource provide a centralized connectivity management model to interconnect spokes. Okay.
We'll perform below action in this lab. Full mesh VPC connectivity with NCC private net across VPC. So I'm not doing
any private here. I will just do a full mesh VPC connectivity with NCC. Steps we
perform set up the GCP environment. Configure network connection center with VPC as a spoke. Validate data path.
Explore NCC service and future clean up use resource. So this is
something which will like as I said it's very simple lab we'll do today. We'll
connect this two VPC to NCC hub. If you need this IM role. Now if you
want to follow my topology you will have to use this shell and I have added some verification steps. So let's
let me close this old one. Yeah. So NCC hub project first we'll
create NCC hub and then we create subnet. Let's see one
by one. So I'm already let me see if all things
are cleared. Error. Error. Subnet was not found. Okay. Clear this
VPC network. I will erase all those. Then we create new one.
Consumer VPC is left only. Delete this VPC directly.
Something is wrong in this cleanup command. Let me correct it.
You delete network. This will get deleted automatically. Subnet delete.
Consumer
submit one
have this already defined right and have consumer subnet 2 three and
then provider subnet right producer subnet where it was
broad subnet it is We'll delete this. I'm just correcting the command. Cleanup
command is
2 3. Okay. And then cloud order you
delete. You delete consumer VPC producer VPC. Okay. Now this is the right command.
Let me replace this in the slide.
Okay. Yeah, this will help. So if you follow
now this it will delete also things. So you won't have you won't face any issues and deletion. Now I hope everything is
cleared. See if any IP address is left. Always check for any reserved IP address
because it will cost you more. Now we have fresh environment with no VPC network nothing
right. So let's go and do this lab quickly.
So first of all project is already set. Let's set the project variable as a project name that we can reuse it every
time.
We set compute zone as US central 1A and region. So anything we create will be
created under US central 1 region and zone US central 1A. So not to mention these two things every time. So if
you're doing lab always do follow this approach. So at least somewhat quick instead of this I will always suggest go
with terapform use terapform module or terapform resource so that cleanup is very easy there. Now create VPC and
subnet. So first I will create two VPC. VPC 1 NCC VPC 2 NCC because I want to have two spoke VPCs. So these are the
two spoke VPCs I will create first. Now I will create the subnet. So in VPC
1 which is VPC 1 NCC I will create one two and three subnets. Okay. And in VPC2
I will create only one subnet. I will show you the reason why I'm creating because there is some filtering also
available. So we'll utilize that feature of NCC as well.
So the network is created. Let's verify from here.
So both VPC 1 and VPC2 is created with without any subnet. I will go in VPC 1
and we monitor it. And I add these three subnets. So you see VPC 1, VPC 1, VPC.
So these three subnets, subnet one, subnet 2, subnet 3 will be added into the VPC 1 only.
Two
subnets are created. All three are created. So we have these three subnets here now.
So VPC 1, NCC subnet 1, subnet 2 and subnet 3. So one is /24 and two are
SL25. Okay. Now let's go and create the VPC2.
In VPC2 I create only one subnet which is 10.2.0/24 under VPC 2. So let's create this one
and validate it as well. VPC2 only one subnet
10.2.0. Now there is a route section. Before doing anything I just wanted to show you you are having three VPC
default don't think of anything about default we have not done anything. So in VPC one suppose I am only doing all my
and sorry deployment in US central one. So let's see what routes are available
in US central one for this VPC. So all are default route which are created by
program pre-programmatic route we say to them. So one is uh the default route to
default internet gateway. So if nothing is there it will look for default internet gateway if you have any cloud
router cloudnet then it will go to that but any network which you create suppose
I you create a subnet so the next stop for that subnet will be your VPC network so always remember that so in Google
there is a hierarchy if you create a resource like VM for the VM the next
will be your gateway subnet gateway and for the subnet the Next stop will be
your VPC network and for that VPC network you can then create in the VPC you can create interconnect HVPN and you
can add a next stop to your onremise or other cloud provider you want. So this is some basic routing which is being
done here. So currently I can see three routes only 10.1.2 10.1.28
and 10.110. So all these three now uh route belongs to this network only. So
at moment there is no route related to VPC 2 because VPC VPCs are logical
boundary by default one VPC cannot communicate to
another VPC if you don't do any extra configuration like VPC pairing or this and spoke thing.
So always remember by default if you create a VPC all the network inside this
VPC will have next stop as a VPC network and that's why they can communicate with each other if firewall rules are in
place. Now if I go and check for VPC2 in VPC2 we have created only one route
sorry one subnet that's why only one subnet show. So no interv route is available by default. So that is clear.
Now like configure VPC firewall rules. Configure firewall rule on each VPC to allow SSH internal IIP or 10008 because
we have created this. So I want all both the VPCs to communicate with between each other at least on firewall point of
view. So let's do uh
G-Cloud compute firewall rule create NCC1 VPC internal. So in VPC 1 I am adding from source
anything allow all same I will do for VPC 2. So that with at least from firewall point of view everything is
allowed. See on VPC2 also I'm doing the same. So anything from this source accept it but creating only a firewall
rule won't help because firewall comes in picture once routing is there right? We're just enabling it so that we don't
face any firewall challenges. We are checking purely network thing here. Now
we are adding this AP tunnel. So 35
35 to 35 240.0/22 which is a IP range in VPC 1 and VPC2 both. So that we can do
SS to our VMs custom VMs and we won't we cannot add
external IP address and still connect to VM using IP. Now configure GC VM in each
VPC. So you see we are not adding any IP addresses. So one VM I will add it in
VPC 1 and CC subnet one and another VM I will add in VPC2 and CC subnet one.
Okay. So I will utilize these two VMs in two different VPC networks.
Now follow slides. So our lab is ready. Let's go to
compute engine.
Let it come. Then we do
So we have this VM1 ready. Let's refresh. VM2 should also be ready. Yeah.
So both VM is ready. One is this 10.1.2 network. Another is a 10.2.2 network. So we have basically in VPC1 and VPC2.
Let's go. Okay. So, NCC commands are not there. But I will show you how to configure it.
Okay. So, now in by default there is no communication. If I go to this, it's SSH
into these two VMs. Either you can do using IP CLI or GI. I will do a GI this
time.
So SSH rules are there. So it should SSH.
Okay. So IPA IPA. So from this VM if I take this is
the VM2, right? VPC2 VM. So from VPC 1 if I try to reach firewall rule is
there. Still you won't be able to reach because the concept remains same if no route no communication between two VPCs
and we already checked if I go to VPC let me open this two tabs
first we'll see routing and another we do NCC configuration if I go to VPC 1
still it won't be able to reach VPC2 so there are no VPC2 routes right only VPC1
routes are there which are by default internal routes okay now let's go to network connectivity center. Type ncc
there you will see something called network connectivity center. Yeah.
So maybe you may ask to enable API. Yeah. Network connectivity center API needs to be enabled. Enable it.
API enable connectivity with and between Google cloud. Okay. So create hub. First
of all there is a hubs and spoke. So without hub there is no use of spokes, right? So we have to create first hub.
So uh we'll name it as ncc hub
mesh or star topology. There are two topologies network connectivity overview. So,
so mesh is all spokes are connected to and communicate with each other. Like every spokes are connected to each other
directly. In star topology only designated edge and center spoke can communicate with each other. Thus
ensuring segmentation and connectivity separation across edge VPC network. So in star only you designate like which
edge and center spokes can communicate with each other like it's not like all spoke are communicate directly to all
spoke. You can decide a center point where few spokes will be connected and that center point will then communicate
with another center point which are connected to another spokes but I want simple so mesh topology both of my VPC
can directly communicate with each other. Pull routing table exchange. Now private service connect connection
propagation is also available like if you are doing a private service connect in one of the VPC you can select on so
that that private service connect can also propagate to the another VPC but I don't want that one now
first of all create without creating any spoke it's optional we can create hub
without spoke also
so creating hub also won't solve any problem. You will have to add your VPC as a spoke to this hub then. So no
request PSC is off active spoke count is zero. Now you can go to spokes
and add spokes. So your spokes can be in the same project or in another project also right
but for us I have created. So hub select the hub which you have created. Go to next. Now new spoke as as I showed you
in this uh documentation like there are VPC network producer network VP internal v attachment router appliance
for us it's a VPC network. So enter VPC
right and then VPC network VPC 1.
Now you you can also filter. So specify
exclude IP4 right. So if suppose I want to exclude anything
like uh I have this three subnets. So the purpose of adding this three subnet was in the VPC one I have this three
subnet. Let me copy it somewhere. in the new tab.
This network one, network two
subnets actually not network in VPC1 I have these three subnets.
VPC1 subnets and
in VPC2
I have only one subnet right PC2 I have only this subnet 10.2
So now if if I go to my VMs which I have configured. So actually I have
configured my VMs only this or this lab.
I have created one VM in 10.1.2 which is this 10.1.0 network and another is in
10.2.2 which is only one network in subnet in VPC2. That's all I don't need
this these two submit anyway it is there in VPC but while communication I have only two VMs I want this subnet to
communicate with this but I don't want this subnet so there is filtering also available so if you look closely if you
have the understanding of C like uh network classes subnet subnet classes
something so these two subnets can be combined together as 10.1.2/24 2 0/24
these two so
the first 128/25 another 128/25 so what I will do is I
will ask my NCC to not exclude this route don't add this route in
advertisement just add this first route in advertisement exclude this two routes okay I have given a summary route for
Done. I don't have any IPv6. I will add another spoke uh which is a VPC
2. Okay. I will I should have named it as a VPC one. No issues. Consider it as a VPC 1. And here VPC 2 is there. No
filter here because I have only one subnet. Let me edit this one also. VPC
1.
Okay. So VPC 1 and VPC2 both are done now. So we have a hub
we have a two spokes and let's create it and added a exclusion filter which says
don't export these two logs these two subnets. So in route we should not see these two subnet 10.1.2 actually this
subnet in a summary. So I have shown you how to do a summarization also
will take some time and it will create for us.
Now let's go to VPC because I will show you first the routes and then we'll do a
ping.
So hub is created now with active spoke count is two. Let's go to spoke active
and it's still creating. So let's wait.
You'll have to wait for it. So we created in the same project and
spoke project. It can be different also. VPCs can also be in different project.
So that's the beauty of it. Okay. So now
both the spokes are ready. Now let's see the route in VPC1.
Same region. View the routes. You see now in the VPC1 we have a hub
NCC hub. So NCC hub is adding some routes of VPC2 network inside VPC1.
Right? So this is the NCC subnet route. So we have not done any routing. Still this hub and spoke has introduced this
VPC2 subnet route here. So how easy is routing here? You may imagine like in the onremise to do this you'll have to
configure complete router and all here with the simple approach we have done this and we have shared the routes and
we have also excluded some routes. The exclusion we can see in VPC2 in VPC2
by default if we have don't exclude it should show three routes but it will show only one. Yeah 10.1.0/2
because we have excluded this 10.12 so only this one is showing. So VPC 2 has
VPC 1 route and VPC 1 has VPC2 route. So that's enough for communication. So let's
go. So already ping is now started which was stopped. See
do a IPA again and initiate a ping again. So 10.2 two.
I am pinging VM2 from VM1 and this is the VM1. So I will ping it
from VM2. See birectional connectivity is achieved. So routing information is shared. So with the help of VPC and
spoke in this way you can connect two VPCs share their routes filter routes.
There are much more into that if you go into the professional networking course. For now it's sufficient for us as we
understood now like how this VPC act as a VPC inter intervation can be done
routing can be done at a scale using NCC hub network connectivities enter delete
the spokes. Let me delete both the VMs.
So here also in slide I have given navigate to VPC route. So we I have shown you repeat the same step for VPC2.
Hence we observed using NCC VPC as a spoke. We can establish connectivity between two VPCs without using VPC
pairing with NCC app sharing routes different between different VPCs configured as a spokes. Okay. So
if you want to do a route exchange at scale, it's the best way to do it.
spoke is deleted. Then we can delete hub
that one thing I thought I should highlight. Now there is something which I want to present today. It will be
short not like designing security. You see,
Google infrastructure security design overview. So here infrastructure security design
overview behind core binary authorization for so how Google make sure how Google infrastructure is
secured. So this is you can note this link
search for security infrastructure design in GCP and go through this. So
this is a complete theory and you will come to know like how Google secures
customer data, how Google manage their data center, what sort of physical uh
data center physical to logical space everything they have mentioned here. So how you see the following image shows a
rack with no hardware hard name. So you can see how they protect rack also. The following image shows the front and back
of a rack with full hardware hardening. Yeah. So nothing is visible everything is so how they make sure that
customer data is safe. How they design security in their data centers. So this security white papers I will recommend
go through them because these are complete theory. I won't be able to cover this in the class. So reading
through these white papers will give you a more understanding about how Google secures their data centers and meanwhile
whatever lab we are doing that will again we are doing it from service endpoint client perspective like when we
go into the client project these things we may need to configure but what is already configured by Google for our
customers that we can read through security white papers and that's a must readad document later I will add it in
our slides also this links but for now I just give you an hint your free time you
can go and read those things in hub. Now I will delete hub and we'll leave for
the day. It will be deleted in the back end. So I did the cleanup also.
So that's all for today. Thank you very much for your time. Have a nice weekend ahead. Wait.


