ript


Hello. I'm audible.
Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes sir.
Consistency sir. That is the most important thing.
consistency and a road map to follow. Yeah. Because if you do not have a road
map and if you keep watching YouTube videos daily, do you think you will get the high packages just by randomly
watching YouTube videos? Right? So it means you should have a
road map and then uh work on that road map. Okay? Work on that road map again
and again again and again and be consistent. Okay. Learn daily. This is
the thing. Target and achieve. Yeah, you can say that
means
curiosity. Hungeress. Hungeress to achieve something big.
Sir, stay hungry. Stay foolish. H stay hungry, stay foolish.
Yeah. Stay hungry. Say no. No. Steve Jobs Bry.
Yeah. Okay. So, let's start the session today guys and uh I hope you got
something uh knowledgeable, valuable. Okay. and uh just go and read these uh
blogs and all what I shared in the WhatsApp group uh and uh uh it will help
you to understand your goals. Okay. So make sure just one thing uh if you
cannot do much things at least do not use mobile phones for Instagram, Tik Tok
all this Okay? So uh just like spend 10 15 minutes a day maximum. Okay?
That's the only thing. and follow our road map. Take this, take a print out of this and put it on your wall, put it on
your office desk, put it on your car. Okay? So that whenever, wherever you go,
you follow that. Okay? I'm here. I want to complete this journey. Okay? Uh or
maybe you guys can create your own road maps. I just made a simple one. Okay? But if you actually want to see the
bigger road maps there uh people are creating lot of things and uh but yes
nobody can achieve these many certifications right the these are the network security cyber security cloud
security operation center all these are the certifications you can see
okay so that's little difficult to focus on all these exams So uh I just bring the most
important courses and this is how we make the simple road map simple road map
to follow simple way to succeed in life. Okay just uh be consistent and
participate. So draw up a clear detailed road map for your career journey. If you
already have a road map that's good. Shift away from mobile distraction to improve productivity. Okay. So after
that consistent learning and professional development okay value and invest your time in maybe in your
physical health relations because these are also important because if your family is happy then you will be also
happy right so because else your brain will always shift to uh those
distractions right so happy new year again guys and have a good year ahead.
Okay. So now the topic we will be starting is uh
so the last time we covered uh uh I remember we covered spanning tree
protocol and we will continue that topic. Okay. Uh so that is uh spanning
tree protocol. Okay. So now if you focus on STP
so it's a good tool. I just uh check this animation. You can see that you can just uh click and just move the book
like this also. It's great. Okay. So this is what we learned uh last time.
Spanning tree protocol. Okay. Which is like if you have multiple links in a company. Okay. The spanning tree
protocol is going to block the multiple links so that they do not have loop. Okay. So it's a loop avoidance protocol.
So you can see if I try to send a packet from PC1 to PC2.
Okay. So see here. So if I try to send a packet from PC1 to PC2. So what will
happen if I don't have spanning tree? The packet will go back to computer and come back to me. Okay. So basically what
is happening here? So it's a loop. So it's a loop. that packet is coming
back again and again to me. So which is called a broadcast loop or uh broadcast.
Okay. So this is a problem in the companies. So how to avoid these type of
problems? So by activating the spanning tree protocol. So how to activate that?
Because so this is automatically uh the spanning tree protocol is already
on in the devices. Okay. Okay. So you can see already written here this will cause a broadcast stom in the network
and to stop the broadcast from STP is already developed by ITE which is called
802.1D. This is the standard 802.1D. This is a
standard number of this 802.1D and what will happen? One of the port is
blocked. So what will happen? The computer PC1 can send data to PC2
directly. But if I try to send switch two to switch three, the switch three will not forward the packet back to
switch one because one of the port is blocked there. And this is blocked because of that switches are sending
some packets which is called bridge protocol data units. The con packet that
every switch send bridge protocol data units after every 2 seconds and what
they are doing they are doing election. So what is election? They are checking who is the root bridge, who is going to
be uh like they compare the bridge priority. Okay, because every device has
a same priority. Then they check the MAC address and the whole combination of bridge priority, wheel number and MAC
address. The total three things is called BPDU uh frame or you can say BPDU
frame priority, wheel number, MAC address. All three things are very important and maybe somebody can ask you
in interview okay tell me what is inside the BPDU frame. So BPD frame BPD frame
consist of bridge ID which is like my priority. Okay. Then we have the VLAN
number which is called extended system ID and then we have a MAC address. All
three combination they all are inside in the BPDU frame.
And what are what is the timer of BPD frame that is 2 seconds those second
about after every 2 seconds we are going to forward the packet
okay and after that like I have shown you that there is a command spanning tree root primary okay and root
secondary okay like if you want to make one switch as a root bridge for one van
okay maybe you can make another switch as a root bridge for another van I'll show you today again in practical okay
how we can do that again I'll show you don't worry okay and there is a cost also if you remember that 100 MB has a
cost 19 1 GBPS port has a cost four 10 GB has a two okay all these cost is
already shared by iTle E and according to that it is going to understand okay
it is going to understand what is the role so when we talk about port role S if you
remember my class I told you like there are three switches if you remember and
one of the switch becomes the root bridge right switch
one of the device like one device become root bridge
okay suppose the first the top device this is the root bridge suppose this is
the root bridge okay so this port will be what designated port because this is
like always in forwarding state and these switches will try to go to the root bridge. So that's why these ports
will be called root port and this side is also root port. And then they compare their MAC address. Suppose this this
device lost the election. So this side the device will be DP and this side
because he lost the election. So this side will be block port. So this is the discussion root port. What is root port?
The ports which are closest to the root bridge are called root ports. Okay? Because they always point towards the
root bridge. Root ports always points to the root bridge. And designated ports
are nonroot ports because designated ports are not root ports. Right? But
they are able to forward traffic between devices. So designated port be forward
traffic. The DPR RP both ports forwardered traffic and the block port
is called your alternate or backup path. And also in this uh spanning tree like
uh we understood like there are some stages also like in
my previous class I told you that there is a blocking state. Okay, in
the state data will not be forwarded because blocking means that nobody forward nobody can forward the data on
the blocking port. Then we have listening state which is around 15 second.
So this state where BPDs but neither forward user data or nor frames. So means we just send BPDs with each other.
We are sending BPDs and in the learning state we start learning MAC address of
switches with each other. And when we are from learning to listening you can see all the status learning LRN LRN LRN
means learning FWD means forwarding you can see the port roles also designated
root designated root all these things and how the election happens this is the thing what we discussed last time. So
first root bridge first we identify the root bridge then we identify the root
ports then we identify the designated ports then we finally check what is going to be the block port and this is
all we have discussed previously. So uh you can take the example of this uh
topology that four devices are here cables are connected okay one device
the switch two
Okay. So you can see here switch one, switch two, switch three, switch four and switch two has a lower priority 2 4
5 77. So 24,000 lowest priority. So switch 2 becomes the root bridge. And
now root bridge has ports like designated designated right and the switch 4 try to say that I want to go to
the root bridge. So this is what we call root port. So this switch one also say that I want to go to the root bridge
that's why this is also root. Okay. Now switch three switch three pass. Switch
three has two path. So one switch three can go from switch four to switch two.
Right. And one path is go to switch one and forward to switch two. But again the
you can see the links are all fast Ethernet means the cost of going from
this side 1919 the cost is 38 and if you go from switch three to switch four to
switch two also the cost is 38. So there is a tie in the cost. So when there is a
tie in the cost then we check that who is the sender. So switch three will
check okay who's the sender switch one which is triple0 a 0011 and this is
another triple0 a 0 0 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 44 so it means
my switch three side the switch three said okay I will forward a traffic from
this side so that's why I put this as a root port because I'm going from this
side right and opposite side is designated port. Okay. And this port is uh designated but
I think this should be blocked because switch 4 uh has a direct link with the root bridge. Okay. Maybe it's uh due to
priority.
Okay. This port is blocked. Uh okay. Okay. this port is blocked because
this device has a lower MAC address. Okay. So what you can do you can try
creating multiple topologies and uh then you can learn actually from the
practical not from the images because images will not give you that
satisfaction because you are not actually checking why this port is blocked and all. So
right now even I'm thinking that switch three port should be blocked but somehow now I realized the switch three MAC
address is lower. So there is a chance that port will be blocked from the switch four side. But we need to
understand the concept. Okay. That's why we are learning this topic. There is no such
uh fix uh theory that we have to learn this way only. Okay.
Okay. So this is about the devices. This is about PVST.
Rapid PVST. Okay. So we are going to learn this uh rapid PVST today. So I was
just taking a reference of that book but somehow we actually understand in the
scenario. Sir, we can say root port is the short
path to the root bridges. Yes, Rafi
MSTP is not part of our content.
Uh we cover in the in core module but uh we can discuss rapid PVST which is like
PVST and RSTP both. Okay. So last time what we have done we
have connected uh like maybe let's do three switches first.
Yeah I'll explain guards root guard BPD guard whatever guard
sorry. So I connected now three cables.
Okay. And uh if I zoom in, so these are my switches and I will get their MAC
address from the show version command.
Okay, so this is the MAC address.
Okay, so MAC address we got another MAC address. Now you guys have to tell me
that who is going to be the root bridge. Okay. So the name is already there. Switch 0, switch two, switch three.
Okay. So just check who is going to be the root
bridge and also try to write the port numbers also.
Now consider this is the interview going on and I'm asking you whatever is your
name okay like maybe Vikas Praep so whatever so I'm taking an interview and
saying so these are my three devices even what I'll do I can disable this
light also because right now you can easily say this port is blocked but let's let's okay I'm not uh disabling
the lights but we can disable the lights go by preferences and you can see uh
show link lights you can disable that and now this is actually going to be the
interview now understand that okay I'm asking you all these are my fast
ethernet ports it means let me give you a hint that all the links has a cost 19
okay now tell me who is going to be the root bridge which port is going to be blocked okay
I can change the devices like this. This will be great. Now you do not know
which port is blocked. At least many people don't know.
Okay. So consider this is switch one. This is switch two. This is switch zero. I'll come back in 2 minutes.
Okay guys, uh I'm back. So now tell me which device will be blocked. Switch two
will become the root bridge.
Okay, let me check. Now compare my solution with your solution.
I will check triple06 and this is triple01.
So switch 0 will be the root bridge because it has 0 09. Okay, this is 0 0 0
uh one. Okay, switch two will be the root bridge. So I'll consider this is the DP port.
This is the DP port and switch one will try to come to switch two. So root port
and switch zero will also come directly that's why root port. Okay. Now,
so if switch one will go from this side to this side, the cost is 38 and the
switch zero will also go from this side to this side. This is also 38. Right?
Right. So again it means the cost is tie
between switch 0 and switch one. Again we compare the MAC address.
So this is 00006. So I will not block this port. Okay?
Because uh the MAC address is smaller than this MAC address. So it means this
port will be blocked. Okay. So the block
the port is going to block this is going to be my block port
and the opposite to block is going to be my DP port. Okay. So let's compare. Go
to preferences. Always show link lights. Yes, you block port. Yes, this is the
block port. Okay, this is the DPDP. You can compare. Go to the device and run
show spanning tree. So you can see both ports are my designated ports. And if I
go to the switch one, show spanning tree. So one port is designated, one is
root port, one is designated, one is root port. and switch zero which will
have one block port and one root port. So yes, we have a block and root port.
So this is the revision of your spanning tree protocol and this is how they will ask you some interview questions and uh
just make sure you check the MAC address, you understand the election process. Okay. So now the problem of STP
that it is slow right because I told you last time uh like if I'm sending traffic
from this laptop to maybe this laptop okay if I connect a cable
okay so if I give a IP maybe 192 168.1
and this side.2 two.
Okay. So if I uh so now the switches are also checking spanning tree on my
computers. Do you think it's a good thing that we check spanning tree
algorithm on the computers? No. Because they are computers. So there is no problem in loop. So that's why Cisco
created a uh concept called portf fast port fast.
Okay. So instead of that I these because all computer ports are called edge
ports. Okay. Which ports? Edge ports. So what Cisco is saying?
Just hold on
one minute.
Okay. Show. So, show show spanning tree. So, right now you can see there is a port which is uh maybe fa03a.
Uh this is fa03 only. Okay. So you can see FA03 is up and FA03 is going in the
listening state. After that it will go in the learning state. Still in the listening. Still in the listening.
Okay. It takes like 30 seconds to come in the uh forwarding state designated.
You can see now it is learning. It is learning the MAC address all these things. So you can see show MAC address.
It is learning MAC address. And now after 30 seconds we are coming in the
forwarding state. But there is a command which means uh
like if you have spanning tree protocol in your company that Cisco give you one
additional option that whatever you have edge ports.
Okay they will. So you can see spanning tree port fast default. So this command
automatically understand okay there is a computer I have to skip spanning tree
protocol because what is going on spanning tree spanning tree is listening learning forwarding right so when you
give this command it will skip it will skip listening learning state directly it will jump in the forwarding state and
this is a by default command which is called global command global means that
you do not have to go one by one every single computer and give this command. So if you give this command
automatically the switches will understand okay opposite side is computer I have to skip the timers. So
when I give spanning tree portfast default okay spanning tree portfast
default. So now try to see if I remove a cable add the cable f03 again you can
see it is not going in the spanning tree now. Can you see that even if I add another
computer? Okay, automatically it identify it is a edge port and directly
we skip the timers and going in the green uh going in the forwarding state.
So this is the best thing that with the spanning tree you can add additional
thing which is called port fast. So which actually means that skip the
timers and go directly port fast. Okay, fast the ports port fast. So edge ports
are those who are not connected to switches. So between computer to computer we use the port fast thing.
Okay. So this is one of the thing what we call port fast. Okay. Now
again this switch has no port fast and still if I add a cable you can see still
it is taking 30 seconds. Okay. And the command what I told you it is a global
command spanning tree port default. Okay. What happens if you go and check show running config
running config may okay you can see that we have already given
that command spanning tree port fast default in the running configuration in case if you want to see the command is
given or not. Okay. And here uh spanning tree is port fast
command is not given. But if you want to give in one port single port if you only
want to give on one port you go to the config t interface f03 and give here
spanning tree port fast. That's it. And you can see there is a warning also. I
don't know why it is not the warning why the warning is not in the global mode.
uh maybe because uh Cisco identify the other side is computer or not. But when
you give on the single port, when you give on the single port, there is error not warning sorry warning that
please give port fast when you connect with the computers because if you give
port fast when it is connected to hub switches, bridges then it can create
loops because spanning tree port fast skip the timers timer. If we skip the
timers, what will happen? They will not do election. They will not understand that which part is going to be blocked,
which port is going to DP RP. Means I'm killing the election process because I
do not need election process in computers. That's why the portfast is helping you remember this thing. And it
is recommended whenever you do some practicals you can give this default command or when if you have the port
with you if you know the port numbers you go to the port numbers and give portfast command also. Okay. So, you
portf fast but still portfast is a good thing, right? We can ping all these
things. Okay. But what if if this link is down?
Okay. Suppose uh if I remove this cable,
you can see the block port is still a block port. The block port should come
in the forwarding. Right? So now understand blocking takes 20 second then
listening again take 15 second learning will also take 15 so total 50 seconds it
will take to come in the green uh side but there is no harm we can ping traffic
from 1.1 to 1.2 two but understand if there is a computer this side then it is
a problem computer if I have a computer on uh
switch one then it could be a problem because I'm trying to send a traffic to
this machine which is maybe uh 192 168
yes or no that blocking ports take time spanning tree is actually slow you can
see I connected a computer still how to avoid this problem. Just go to config t
spanning tree port fast default and automatically it will go in the forwarding state
after some time. Yeah. So 1.2 1.3
and if I bring the cable back if I bring that cable back right. So you
can see again the port is blocked. Again if I remove the cable
you can see still it is a block port and if I try to go to that 1.3 machine the
traffic will not go because the port is blocked. They go 1.3
packet will not go from 1.1 to 1.3 because the packet is getting dropped
because this port is block and you cannot forward traffic from the block port.
There is a problem. This is a big problem. Right? So this problem is because of that protocol spanning tree
protocol. We have a feature which can speed up the computer process called
portfast but and we have a feature which can also improve the speed of these
switches which is taking 5050 seconds to come in a forwarding state.
Second bet hero it's yeah now you will be able to send a
traffic you can see so do you think we will wait for almost 50 seconds in companies no we will not wait it's a big
problem in the companies because old spanning tree is actually wasting a lot
of time in the company so if I add the link back and again this you can see
block A and this will also little time right now after because election going
on and after the election again this will go in the block port
but I don't want to work with the STP now because this algorithm is very slow
so I go and say spanning tree mode rapid PVST
this command will shift the device to the latest mode which is called spanning
tree mode rapid PBS just rapid meanage
fast processing. Okay. Now you can see block port. Okay.
And now if I remove the cable. By the way I have given this command everywhere.
This is the command. You go to the global mode and give this command spanning tree mode rapid PBST on all
switches. Okay. under after config t config t after config t just give this
command and all devices avail become superman super devices now if I remove the cable
let's see how much time the block port is taking if I cut down this cable
count 1 2 3 when I delete it 1 2
within 2 3 second the port gets into the blocking and this is also within one or
2 seconds we will be able to shift traffic. Okay. Now let's test the traffic.
Okay. So we will continuously ping. Continuously ping. Just put hyphen t.
You can see I'm doing continuously ping. And now I remove the cable. Okay. Sorry.
Continuously ping. And I have to click on the top button. So that this window will be here only. And now I go and
delete this cable. All right. When I delete it.
Yeah. So now let's see how many packets will drop. Hardly one packet.
Hardly one packet is getting dropped. But if you work with STP, your manager
will scold you. Man, it's taking too much time. And now when the link is back, still it will take like one drop.
Okay, we can improve those also in future further advanced technologies.
But this is a win situation for us that uh from STP now we are moving to the
rapid PVST which is a fast protocol than the STP because it has uh and you can
also see show spanning tree command where do we see that we have activated
RSTP show spanning tree. So you can see where it it's written protocol RSTP
RSTP and if you go back earlier it was
showing you some normal spanning tree but this now this is called spanning tree enabled protocol RSTP.
This is where we understand this is RSTP.
Okay. And uh again if you want to set a priority that one device you want to become root one
device you want to become scandry that I can show you just uh but before that I'm
just checking if are we
h
Okay. So you can see what is RSTP. So RSTP is
a faster version of RS STP. Sorry, I don't know how to operate this animation
but somehow my touchpad is working in a reverse
order. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's okay.
Okay. So RSTP is a rapid span tree protocol defined by it E. Again it uh
the BPD is also 2C everything is almost same but the standard is called 802.1W
STP was 802.1D and this is 1W which is also like a
proprietary version RSTP rapid PVST plus like you can work in other company
devices also okay and uh rapid PVST will also support
so the to enable rapid PVST we go to to the global mode and activated this command what we learned spanning tree
mode rapid PVST. So what is the difference between HTTP that we have a new state called
discarding we do not have listening and blocking listening and blocking.
There is no listening there is no blocking. There is a discarding state which is similar like blocking but it do
not forward frames or learn MAC address. It simply send BPDs. So discarding means
we will just forward the BPDs. Learning MAC addresses we will learn the MAC address of each other. Forwarding you
know that we forward the BPDs and all. Okay. So there is no such advancements
in case of theory you can say there is like if you start learning
more in detail about RSTP then there is a concept called in RSTP how they come
to room that RSTP I remember like uh in my newsletter
someday yes
okay so what are the key differences between STP and RSTP in terms of their interaction with the network protocols
and technologies. So you can see STP operate at layer 2. Both are layer 2 protocols. Okay, STP is compatible with
Ethernet technologies, switches, bridges. But RSTP also compatible with the VLANs, okay, ether channels, okay,
all these things. And STP has a longer convergence time because it takes lot of
time. Okay. But RSTP is much faster convergence rate uh because it takes
just a second to go in the forwarding state. So when we talk about uh STP we
have root port designated blocking uh and we have five states like listening, learning, forwarding, blocking, disable
but RSTP has like call root port designated alternate. Okay. Because block port is known as alternate port in
RSTP. we say root port which is RP designated port DP and instead of
blocking we say alternate port. The alternate port is like introduced in RSTP.
RSTP uh backup block port is called alternate port and RSTP has again three state
discarding, learning and forwarding.
Okay. So what is the topology? So whenever STP get any change suppose STP detected
topology change there is a link down. So what will happen the STP detect topology changes by sending BPDs which slow down
the network due to frequent BPD transmissions because if anything changes in the STP it will start sending
BP with each other. Okay, that it starts sending BPDs and it
can slow down the process. But RSTP uses a technology change mechanism. RSTP uses
a topology change in mechanism that minimize the impact on network
performance and during convergence because STP uses a thing called RSTP
perosal and agreement. RSTP
RSTP they send proposal agreement with each other that okay that I am the main
device I send you proposal okay and uh just update your database and then uh uh
and then they forward to their devices they forward to their devices. So it means every device send proposal to
their below devices and all other devices they send agreement to the
devices so that they have a sync basically care that all the devices have a sync synchronization they have that's
why they are able to understand the things very quickly but STP do not have that like a synchronization between
devices that's why they keep sending BPD with each other so in summary RSTP improves the functionality of spanning
tree by providing faster convergence better compatibility various network
protocol technologies and all so this is a handwritten note also So if you anybody wants to see
STP RSTP
yeah I have already added proposal agreement all these things.
Okay. So I just started this.
Okay, I'm adding this link also. So
okay, port fast. uh let's talk about uh BPD guard also and let's create uh this
topology. I'll show you last time also I've shown you but still I'll uh give
you one more example that how you can make a one root primary one root secondary
okay like if I have a multiple VLANs how I
will make the root bridge or like this so what we can do here we can have a new
topology and uh we can have uh these multi-layer
switches these are like my core devices. Okay. And in these devices there is no
power because they do not have the power adapters. You go here and just add AC
power supply and these are dual power supply.
If one power fail, power adapter fail like you have multiple power supplies.
So this is just an feature of Cisco devices. And now
consider you have multiple devices. Uh all switches have a link between
multilayer like this.
Okay. I hope you remember the previous class scenario now.
Okay. So distribution core you want core also. So we can have a core layer also.
We can copy these devices and paste on top of it. And these devices
will be connected like this like this. And they are somehow
connected with each other like this also.
Okay. So now you can see everywhere you see that ports are getting blocked,
right? And this is the same scenario we have one like side by side link right
and uh further we have multiple devices. So now in I want to make
uh like uh right now all the devices are in v one. Okay. So consider that I want
to add multiple vans. So consider these laptops are v 10
and uh uh servers are v 20. Okay.
So we have multiple VLANs. So what we have to do? We have to connect cables
on all the devices.
Okay.
And in all the devices I have to configure uh VLANs.
And first of all I can give a name also like core switch one. This is core
switch two. This is like DSW1 which is called distribution switch one. This is
a distribution switch two. This is core switch one. Core switch two. Distribution switch one. Distribution switch two. And these you can say ASW1
access switch one access switch 2 access switch 3 and you you can go and give the host
name command to all the devices. So it will help us to do the practical. Okay.
So go to all the devices and just give the host name.
Host name AS W2
host name ASW3. Okay. So DW1. So
from here also I can give this command.
This is only in the packet tracer. In real world, you do not have that option. Uh because you have to go to CLI and
give this command.
Okay. So, we have given the names guys and now uh we will come check the port
numbers. We go to preferences. Uh always show port numbers labels. So
you can see the lot of ports guys like 1 2 3. So we have 1 2 3 1 2 3. So I will
make them all what trunk and you can go to this and say show
spanning tree or show CDP neighbor. CDP is also disabled in these devices.
Okay. So maybe we have LLDP. No, it's also okay. CDP is disabled
because of some security reason. It's okay. But I can see all the ports. So I
go interface range GI101 2 3 and I say uh switch portut mode
trunk. I have given that command. And uh trunk encapsulation command is
also not required here.
paste because the thumb config. Okay. So this is core switch one.
the command was uh
I don't know how why I'm not able to copy
that's better now. Okay. Okay. So you made the ports trunk
and these ports also you will make trunk 1 2 3
interface range one 0 1 2 3 switch code
mode trunk. Okay. So both the sides core switch one core switch two
uh you will give this command. I've already written core switch one and
uh core switch two. Okay. So command after that there is a
uh device like the ESW1 I think CDP is enabled here. Show CDP enable.
Yeah I can see lot of port numbers here like 101 1023.
So these are 1 2 3 but there is fourth also. So 1 to 4 interface range GI101
to 4 switch port mode trunk.
Yeah. Interface range uh switch mode trunk.
This is DSW1.
DSW1.
Okay. And two also similar. 1 2 3 4. So similar commands interface range. I know
most of you are getting tired.
This is easy lab. Further labs are much advanced.
Okay. DSW 1 and 2. Okay. So we have made all the ports trunk now
and I hope you remember that if you configure trunk one side the other side automatically become the trunk port
because of CDP. Okay. So now we have to create vans and all devices should have
v 10 and v 20. So we can go to all devices and say uh van 10 name PC v 20
name server. Okay do show history. This is from where you can check okay what
commands we have given. I copy and paste in all the devices.
V 10 MPC. V 20 name server. Paste wheel 10. V 20. V 10. V 20. V
10. V 20. wheel and 10, wheel 20.
Okay. So, we have given that uh everywhere guys. Okay. Now, every device
has a spanning tree. Okay. If you go and run here spanning tree command. So now
you can see spanning tree is not just for v one. Now we have a multiple vans.
So we have v 10 table also. We have v 20 table also. Right? So it means whatever
number of vain you have in your company, the more vain you have, the more
spanning tree will run. Okay? So it's a problem you can say also. But it's okay.
Uh it's a good thing also because for every van so right now you can see that
these ports are blocked one two and I think uh
Yeah. Okay. And these are core layer devices are also disabled. So it's a uh somehow
uh because if you have multiple links we have to disable some ports but we cannot
take a risk of disabling this. Okay. So we can make this ether channel or we can
yeah ether channel is a better way. So we go to this port and say
interface uh range GI102
two and three. So channel group one mode
desirable. So I just made these two ports desirable
in the core switch one.
I just uh add here in the trunk and course switch code to both side
do show history. So history can help me to copy the command.
Okay, this side is also like uh one and two. So I just made a ether channel.
You can see port channel is up. Port channel is up.
Okay, it went down. Why it is down?
Okay, save that top apology guys. Anything can happen.
Port channel is up. Oh yeah, now ether channel is okay. It takes time you can see. But again the ports are disabled
and all. It's okay. You cannot have the whole all green ports. But somehow we
can distribute the traffic. distribute the traffic means like I can make one
device as a VLAN um what we call
root bridge for one van and for that we can do multiple things okay like uh we
can have a
where is it I know the commands but I'm just checking is there any reference over
Yeah. So you can see for particular VLAN we can set a priority. Okay. Like right
now if I want to make this device uh as the root bridge. So you can see u
show spanning tree and uh there is no information that this device is the
root. So this device which is some triple02 is the root bridge. Uh no this
this device is the root bridge. The topology device the device with this MAC address
is the root bridge but my MAC address is 00002 something because the priority is
32788. Okay. Okay. And if I say here uh spanning tree for v 10 or for v one I
want to make you uh priority 4096 which is very small 0 and 4096 is
very small number. So I just made this device as a root bridge for v one. And
if I go and check again show spanning tree. So you can see for v one I am the
root bridge now. You can see my MAC address and the upper
MAC address is now same because this device became the root bridge. Why?
Because I have given I have reduced the priority priority.
I reduced the priority for wheel 1 4096 plus V number wheel 4096 plus wheel
number 4097. Now this device is the root. Okay. But
if you check the root van 10 or maybe v
20. Okay. So these are not the this device is not the root bridge for wheel
10 and 20. Whe 10 and 20 still we have a different uh root bridge. Okay. So this
is how you can play the traffic like I want to make this device as a van 1 and
vent 10 uh root bridge and I want to make the other device root bridge for
vand 20. Okay. So we go to this device and say spanning tree van 20 priority
4096 like that or maybe we can give another command which is primary and
secondary but 4096 is the better because primary uh uh that command last
time I have shown you van 20 root primary this command this command will actually
reduce the priority to 24,000 something and here when you give 4096 which is a
quite a lower number it's a uh you can say better v 20
so now this is the only thing you need to understand that yes we can modify the ven traffic according to our taste that
I want to send v 110 20 traffic from this side or 20 this side so right now
this topology is not fully complete according to the corporate network. But right now you can at least understand
the basic rule of STP, RSTP and in all the devices I can improve by giving two
extra commands in whole my network spanning tree.
So spanning tree uh mode rapid PST. So give this command
everywhere and spanning tree portf fast default. So these two commands I
recommend you guys give everywhere so that we can have a port fast and rapid
PBST do not need port fast. Uh because if you give rapid PBST it will improve
computers will like if I go here and give this command spanning tree
spanning tree mode rapid. So what will happen like the device which is running a rapid
PBST. So if I add a cable it will just take two or 3 seconds. 1 2 3.
Yeah you can see after 2 3 seconds it is getting green. But if you do not want even rapid PBST to wait for 2 3 seconds.
So additionally you can give for spanning tree port fast default also.
So both the commands you can give and this is actually used in industry also
that even if you have a rapid PST mostly we give port fast in the combination of rapid PBST
guys
rapid PBST. So everywhere I have given that spanning tree rapid PBST portf fast default. So
now my topology is fully ready and somehow you can see some orange lights are not visible because for vent 1020
traffic is going from this side. Okay. For v20 traffic is uh going from this
side like on the core layer but still there are block ports which are not
visible right now. Okay. But still there are some block ports. You can see show spanning tree and uh block for v one
for v one the f02 this port is still block for v one. So
you cannot forward v one traffic from this side. But if you check f02 for wheel
uh tw 10 and 20 this is root port.
Okay, for wheel 10 and 20 uh 20 20 this is a root port because this is maybe the
root bridge. So that's why this is the root port towards the root bridge
comp. Okay, don't make it complex right now. Just understand this is the
spanning tree and rapid PBST is making it faster. Port fast is used for
computers. And now BPD guard is the last thing what I want to show you right now.
spanning tree bpd guard enable this is the command.
So you would want that uh the device want that nobody can send me superior
BPD for my protection of links for my security. I go to all my links like the
interface range GI101 to3 and say spanning tree
guard uh guard root. So this is like nobody
can say that I'm the root bridge. So this is a root guard. This is what I am showing you root guard that nobody can
send me that I am the root bridge.
Okay. But on course two already u the device is like uh root bridge. So he
will always send you that I am the root bridge. I'm the root bridge. But I don't want from this side right. I don't want
that uh from this side. Nobody can send me that I'm the root bridge. So only on
this 101 port 101 port
I'm saying spanning tree guard root that nobody can send me that
I am the root bridge I'm the root bridge like this okay so this is the root guard where you protect your devices who are
root bridges so you just activate spanning tree guard root and if anybody try to say that I'm the uh lowest
priority span planning tree van 1 uh priority suppose zero which is the
lowest number. If anybody try to send this number
you can see moved to inconsistent state. Right now you cannot see that orange light because we are running per vain
spanning tree which is like multiple vans. There is a error that 101 port is
going in the inconsistent state. So you can see show span tree
uh that GI 101 is going in the block port. But for other traffic still it is
forwarding for v 20 because I made for v one but if I give a 20 so this
port will be blocked for 20 also. You can see now for V 20 also the port
is blocked now because somebody's trying to send me the root somebody tries try
to become a root bridge. So the root guard protect company devices so that
nobody can say that I am the root bridge. So this is what we call root guard.
And what is BP2 guard? That nobody can send me BPD. Suppose this laptop
installs some uh Kali Linux which is like a penetration operating system tool
penetration testing and just imagine if a hacker or somebody try to send you
that I'm the switch I'm the root bridge I'm the root bridge so the switch will
understand and he will uh change his port roles because the switch will say
okay you are the root bridge then I'm the root port so f03 becomes the root port all these problem can happen. So
what we can do in that case uh so trunk negotiation should be off remember
uh in the DTP. So always say uh switch port mode access.
So, additionally we can say switch port uh guard
uh uh command tr spanning tree bp guard okay
spanning tree bpd guard enable okay so access command is uh important
and after that bp enable and now if anybody try to add a just I'm trying to
say to show you that. Okay. So, this is the device which is running switch three and this
is a switch right. So, obviously what we are trying to make that we are uh like
trying to show you that yes this is the hacker. So, basically now understand
that somebody installed the Kali Linux and try to attack. Okay. So, the I'm
adding a cable to the switch. So you can see consider this is the Kali Linux making the device as a switch and
you can see the port is blocked now. So why the port is blocked? Because the this cable where I added this BPDU guard
enable. So this cable actually sent me a BPDU message because this device is
working like a switch for me. So for testing I just added a cable in the switch because I cannot show you the
Kali Linux installation of all the tools but I'm just showing that okay consider this computer is like a switch and
whenever somebody try to send me a uh what we call BPDU the port will go in
the block port and how to fix that we go back f03 G shutdown and then give no
shutdown again so which is called toggle shut for no shutdown
give shutdown and again give no shutdown to fix this error. the same if you have any BPDU
uh error or root guard error this is how you shut and no shut the things
so it's a okay so just cover these questions
A class fundamental class.
So the people who are sleeping don't sleep for next 3 64 days.
It's okay to sleep today. It's not mandatory that we have to learn
today every topic. Okay. So, let's take a break for 5 minutes. Guys, I think topic is over.
But I'm thinking what can I teach you further? Topic for today is uh RSTP
and that BPD guard guards.
Next topic will be ACL at other things.
So what if we set the priority on core distribution mah like you can set
anywhere wherever you want but it is always recommended that uh the devices
who are on the top always become the root bridges
root ID and bridge ID like the device who is root bridge shows you the root ID
the device which is showing you bridge which ID is your MAC address and priority.
Yeah, I'll uh discuss NTP NTP protocol. It's a small topic. Just come after 5
minutes. Okay, I have shown given you the video as well, but we can have a
small discussion on NTP. So, come after 5 minutes.
that NTP topic uh uh I have to teach in
NRC uh which is like maybe we can continue next uh week maybe uh that
those students also have to learn uh the NTP topic
and DTP already covered ether channel we covered
uh wireless Yeah, we can have a small introduction
about wireless. Okay, because NTP I have to teach uh multiple times else. Okay,
so NTP will be covered. Um
so we can have a basic wireless uh discussion. Okay. So let me share my screen is
already shared. Uh okay. So what do you know? What do you think about wireless?
Uh like we have LAN networks. Okay. Like we have VAN. The similar way we have a W
pan which is called wireless personal area network like Bluetooth. Okay. Or
maybe your hotspot which is called your wireless personal area network.
and uh WLAN which is like wireless land which is like uh under the 100 m
normally this is what we are going to focus because in the companies everywhere we talk about WLAN
the simple wireless network is called WLAN okay and then we have W man which
is like metrop area city more than 100 m which is like Y max all
kind of those technologies okay your those technologies are not uh like your
what we call that VAST or maybe uh 3G, 4G, 5G. This can be example of W man uh
because they are wirelessly giving you the internet or signals. Okay. But we uh
focus on the WLAN part. So wireless network usually consist of
these components that computer have a wireless adapter right all the machines nowadays they have wireless uh NIC okay
if you go to your uh
this scenario so you can see there's a uh in the wireless so you can see there
is access points these are called Wi-Fi devices In the companies you connect these
devices with the cable and they connect the cable with the switches. So now
access point is nothing just a Wi-Fi access Wi-Fi device which will be on the
company ceiling and all right uh like if I show you
uh Cisco access point. So these are the access point where you add these devices
on the walls or on the roof. Okay. So these are the example of access
points. So you attach the Cisco access point with the switch basically. So access
point all these access points are connected with the cable with the switches. And now there is a device here
which is called uh you can see there is a black device here which is giving power to the access
point. But if you do not want to attach these devices every time then we have a
device called PoE okay which is like Cisco switch is giving power to the
device. You do not need this adapter. So just you need to buy a device which gives a power. Okay. So now you can see
we got a power here in access point because it's a packet racer power is there already. Okay. And if you add go
to this miscellaneous and you can see there is a laptop wireless laptop. So
when you just add a computer here you can see automatically the packet tracer is showing you some lines which is
actually example that okay this laptop actually connected with access point and this access point by default in which
ven one right so I can add this in uh v
f05 f05 I can add
uh in the another ven maybe switch port uh access vent 10. I added in the vent
10. And now if you want to give the computers like u like all these machines these
laptops are in vain 10. So if you remember that topic inter vlan you can
make uh the device svi like interface v 10. Okay. So I just created SVI mean
this will be the default gateway for V 1 10 and I'm giving here 10.1.1.
Okay. Okay. So this is like IP of V 10 and I'm going to set up a DHCP IP DHCP
pool ABC default router 10.1.1 and the network is 1000
mask uh 25500 0. So I just set up a SVI and
also set up a DHCP pool in the core switch one.
Okay. Okay. So this is uh the thing I just removed.
Okay. So V 10 this is SVI this is the DHCP pool and by doing that uh your
computers will get a DHCP IP.
Okay. So remember that the device this port there are some green lights and all
there is some port misconfiguration or inconsistent. You can see GI 101 is
still in the block port to fix that issue because that was a root guard
something we configured. So we can give shutdown and no shutdown
uh moved to root. Okay. So this device we have given the priority low priority
we have given the root primary. Yeah, these commands I have to remove because I do not want
to give priority zero to this. Okay, so then we have for wheel 10
20. So I just fixed this issue and
101 shutdown. No shutdown again. It is going in the
root unconssistent state. Okay. V 20 v 10. Yeah, still in the block
port. There is someone who is sending me VP or root guard
on this port. Okay, let me check again. Show spanning
tree or show running. running running running uh has no
updates. Shows planning tree. Uh
vain one is okay. V 10 20 as a priority. You can see 4116 again.
4116 for wheel 20 and 32778 for wheel 10. And here in this device
uh show spanning tree 32778 and 32778. Okay.
Okay. Spanning tree v one uh priority zero. U we can give v 10 priority zero.
We can set v 20 priority zero.
Okay, I think uh now it's going to work.
So how we will check like we can check our computer is getting the vent 10 IP
or not. If this device is added in vent 10, we
will get a vent 10 IP.
Let me verify. Show spanning tree. This is the problem. If you have
multiple vans now, you can see it's a forwarding state. 101
is in forwarding and 104 for vain 10.
104 is designated. Maybe the ports here because computer is
attached to this ASW2. So show spanning tree.
So v wheel 10. You can see this is the FA02 is in
blocking port. F A02. Okay. This port is blocked. Actually
be chalash. You can see DHCP failed. A pip is being
used because if you do uh if you you are not getting IP from the DHCP
uh there is a peep address which is 169254 and after that it can pick any
random number. So a pi is automatically private IP addressing. So whenever DHCP
fail a PI is generated in Windows machines in some other machines also
normally in Windows machine and this IP is a sign that DHCP is not functioning
properly.
So this lights is actually
a sign of issue I'm observing
show spanning three
then one by one I have to check that
H. What if I check here?
So, IP interface brief. V 10 is up.
Okay. Show V and brief. I have only one PC.
We have trunk ports. Yes. Ports. Uh 101 is 10.
All things are okay. But somehow they are not getting IP. So basically
Wi-Fi in the Wi-Fi device this device will yeah you can see Wi-Fi device is getting IP but there is some issue maybe
with VLAN but you can see I added this access point in the VLAN and from the
core switch we are getting the DHCP IP and my wireless device is getting IP
address. So the wireless is like you can make uh you need a wireless adapter you
need some access points which work on layer 2 devices. So you can see access
point is connected to layer 2 device and giving the Wi-Fi signals to the
computer. So now this access points are available in two categories. Okay. One
is called standalone where every single access point will be configured
individually. Like if you have uh in your company if you have multiple access point like 1 2
3 4 because in college universities you have lot of access point everywhere you
go you have a Wi-Fi so now just imagine if you go and configure one by one it
will take much time right. So these devices are called standalone
Wi-Fi access points and these are called autonomous access point also and there
is a centralized access point also which is managed by Cisco WLC. So what is WLC? Which is wireless LAN
controller which is going to be like a device which will be the controller of
all access point. If you have 10, 50, 100, whatever
because if you configure one by one, you have to set password of every Wi-Fi. You have to change the security. A lot of
things you have to do manually. But if you have a centralized
Wi-Fi system in your company, you can configure all the settings from this device which is Cisco wireless
controller. Okay. People are going. I don't know why
they are getting Yeah, it's okay.
Uh okay. Okay. And after that uh like when you connect computer with computer
like mobile with mobile. So this type of scenario is called IBSS independent
basic service set which means there is no Wi-Fi device in between two
computers. So that's called ad hoc. Ad hoc we call this ad hoc. So in Windows 7
there is option like you can connect computers with each other. You can see set up a Wi-Fi set up a wireless ad hoc.
It's like hotspot only yet you do not need a Wi-Fi router or anything. And
this type of scenario is called ad hoc networks. Okay. So where only we have two devices
and there is no uh Wi-Fi device in the network. So this type of network is
called ad hoc network. Okay. Okay. So, Wi-Fi direct is again a
uh thing where you share wireless uh printing sharing like nowadays if you
check wirelessly you can screen share you can do lot of stuff that's called Wi-Fi direct the main modes are like
this one uh in the companies we use this mode which is called basic service set
which is called infrastructure mode. So companies in companies you have a router
you have a switch you connect with access point and this access point you connect a wireless clients. So this when
you have one access point this is called basic service set. When you have one
access point this is called basic service set. Okay. And when you have
multiple Wi-Fi devices in the company where you go from second floor to third
floor where you have a roaming right roaming means that without losing the
Wi-Fi connectivity you are going from second floor to cafeteria to third floor
right so that's why you put a lot of Wi-Fi devices in the company and this type of scenario is called extended
service set ESS okay
uh you can see they have the same Wi-Fi. You have to keep the same Wi-Fi name so
that people can go from one place to another also. So this is called ESS which is extended service set.
Okay. And how these things work we can discuss later on because it's uh too advanced right now for you. Which is a
tunnel between my Wi-Fi device and uh access point and after access point to
WLC there is a cap web tunnel which is called control and provisioning of
access wifi wireless access point cap. Okay. So this protocol work on UDP port
numbers 5 to 4 65 to 47 and how these things are working. This we can do
practically and understand. Okay. But as of now uh we are not going with the
configuration but it was just a basic overview of wireless that uh what is access point and uh uh without Wi-Fi
device is called ad hoc single Wi-Fi device is called BSS and multiple access
point is called ESS and by the way Wi-Fi is Wi-Fi name is called SSID if you know
SSID which is called service set identifier.
Wi-Fi can n go the Wi-Fi name is actually uh suppose if my Wi-Fi name is ABC so
Wi-Fi name is not a correct word the actual name is SSI ID what is your SSI ID okay so these things we have to focus
on okay so right now what we just added one access point this is like standalone
mode and just have a good hands on on these topics because now what I'm trying
to do If you understand today practical whatever technologies you are learning with me okay whether it is uh like
spanning tree whether it is inter vlan vlan dfcp tnet default static whatever
we have done so far now all the things are going to combine with each other and
when we combine these things together then we will configure some advanced things on top of it like net ACL or
whatever okay So that's why I'm saying like please uh um uh don't think that
you are wasting time. It is like uh too much time. We are taking like weekly classes. Uh if you are learning from me
so it means you need to make sure that you revise your previous topics very clearly and
very oftenly.
Okay. The people who stay in the classes, they revise, they do not feel any challenges because anyhow
if they are not learning today maybe after 6 months they will again go and watch videos. uh it's better to attend
the live class rather than just watching videos, right? Through
right. So that's the thing.
PDP connection without wire 98 w injector create new vent and is a port
config is the okay so see you guys tomorrow and we can have like further
discussion on any topic uh but don't focus on new topics focus on previous
topics more are you getting my topics focus.
What?

