ript


Uh, I hope you guys can see my screen.
Okay. Chat windows open.
Okay. So,
so today's uh day one lab. So we are going to do a lab today okay for u uh so
if you have not attended my last class don't worry let me tell you how to install packet tracer within just 2
minutes okay so you just go to the
website uh like skills uh for all
okay so just register on this website skills forall.com
Okay. So once you sign up on this website, you can see login.
Okay. So if you don't have account, just sign up with your Gmail ID.
So I'm trying to do the same. Uh so just hold on.
for all.
Yes. Good evening everyone. The people who are typing in chat I'm
replying to those. Okay. So I'm just logging with my Gmail
ID and it's very simple just to login with Google. Okay. So once I log in with Google.
Hello. Good evening. Okay. Okay. So now you can see once you log in
here so you can search here packet tracer. Okay. So you can see the first one
getting started with Cisco packet tracer. I click on that. Then I click on
this uh continue course. I think if I go to resources.
No. So I go to the réumé course. Okay. And in the first uh second page first or
second page because this is a small uh course you can see watch some video if
you want to know about packet tracer but you can see there is a link here skills forall.com resources lab downloads. Okay
if I give this direct link to you you will not be able to download because you have to again sign up. Okay but still
I'm sharing this link. So if you already have account you guys can just uh
download from this link directly. Okay. Yeah. So now you can see we have packet
tracer Mac versioner Ubuntu packet tracer windows. So uh I'm
expecting most of you have Windows version. Okay. So some of you have Mac or Ubuntu. So just use and install the
same. Okay. So these are the instructions you can follow if you are not getting some problem.
Okay. So right now I think we are ready uh for uh other things. Uh you can
install like if you are doing cyber security or something there are some other basic uh virtual machines but
right now for this course it is not required. Okay. Because we are learning CCNA and CCNP.
Okay. So we are ready uh and I have already installed the software. So I go
to the software which is packet tracer Cisco packet tracer 8.2. Okay. There is
no much difference between the previous version and the latest. But why I always
say please use the latest software because if I give any file to you uh in
the old version that file will not be supported. Suppose if I give you some homework or assignment okay in old
packet tracer it will not work. Can we do the same lab with provided networking networking? Yes. CS praat. See for the
first two three in the last class we have decided that for the first two three weeks okay at least for this month
we will be going to do practicals on packet tracer. Once you are good with basic fundamentals about packet tracer
then I will switch to my labs which are networking labs. Okay because these are
very like these are very powerful labs but right now for beginners I think packet tracer is good option. Okay. So
once we complete two three weeks okay so then we will be going with these labs
where you will be able to configure the latest uh more advanced labs basically
okay so these labs we will come later on but I think uh let's focus on the basic first okay
so consider you are learning now how to drive a car
okay so consider uh now being into this field networking. So why we are doing
these labs? Because when you become a network engineer, okay, or if you already working as a network engineer,
so you will be able to configure. So first thing we say in the networking
configuration, okay, so what is configuration? when we do type sub commands.
Okay. when we type some commands okay and
okay so very simple when we type some commands in CLI that's called configuration okay so what is
configuration guys so config be commands type whenever we type any commands in
routers switches that is called configuration clear everyone
very simple I'm covering from very basic okay so another word you will get to know in the networking that is
implementation. So what is implementation? So implementation is like uh from the
command line from the configur implementation means the whole project. Okay. Means whether it is related to uh
physical connectivity. Okay. like right right now suppose uh
like uh if I give a project to you suppose I ask you to open my branch
office in Hyderabad so I'm going to say I want implementation my I want to
implement my new new location in Hyderabad are you getting my point so
implement means when we executed the commands and configuration everything yes assume correct yeah so
implementation so there is no such big difference but some People will say implementation, some people will say we
will. But configuration is just configuration. Implementation is like whole project. Okay. So physical
connectivity with configuration is called implementation. Clear everyone?
Yes. Okay. And third thing we have is troubleshooting. So what is troubleshooting? So when the network is
already built okay or when the network is already there but if any issue comes if any
issue comes we have to troubleshoot we have to fix the issues so that is called
troubleshooting clear everyone okay so when you go to
any job portal sorry if I go to again and again job portal but uh again this
is not only CCNA CCMP this is more than CCNA CCMP batch okay so I try to share a
few things related to the real world okay so when I say network implementation
okay so now you can see this the job profile also say network implementation
engineer so what does it mean tell me in the chat so this guy what would be the
job description if you go to the network implementation engineers so these guys
are hiring uh like uh HCL is hiring for these guys with 10 experience, 10 3 to
five. Okay, even if you have one or two years experience, you can just uh select from experience. And now you can see
some not too many jobs but yes uh because as a fresher you will not get
implementation job very easily but if you have two three year experience four year experience then you will get
implementation project because as a fresher you would get a jobs like no
engineer which is like network operation center engineer you will get network support engineer. Okay. But once you get
a good experience then you can go to network implementation.
So implementation means these guys have to configure the product network
implementation engineer. So these guys have to like you can see here uh again
uh let me go to the previous filter. Yeah. So if you open this job so what is
the job role here? So you can see here this guy need to learn about configure
troubleshoot and manage SD van because SD van is the latest technology we all
have to learn somehow after CCNA CCNP. So uh so once you complete your CCNA
CCNP the sec after CCNA CCNP what would be your next step? SG van technology and
plus firewalls. Okay because we always recommend the people the courses what
are being demanded in the industry. Okay, don't go for fancy courses like CCI. CCI is not required right now
because it will take a lot of money and efforts. So once you complete your CCNA, CCNP then learn SD van then learn
firewalls. So once you get 30 40 lakh CTC then go for CCI.
Okay, clear? Okay. So configure and troubleshoot when
implement. So this is how you will understand. So implementation is when the comp when the guy is going to you
can see here what what uh like audit audit
we have to do some audits diagram update create process documentation. So these
things are also done by implementation means we have to know how to configure
Cisco devices polo alto device foret. So these are different different devices but why these are too many because this
is for the experience 10 to 20 years but if you go to very less experience maybe
uh like 5 to 6 years or something like that then it would be more or less jobs
uh more less skills required. Okay. So as I told you like if you go only with a
network engineer so this is a layman this is a general word like doctor.
Okay. Doctor like doctor could be hurt doctor
any type of dentist be doctor. So doctor could be any doctor. So network engineer
is like general word. So people with lot of a small company is also hiring
network engineer with network engineer keyword. So don't go with this fancy name network engineer. Sometimes you get
a job of network engineer but they will ask you to update outlook
trust me in small companies they will give you position of IT administrator network engineer okay but they will not
give you the work so always go and ask what is the work before you join okay so
that would be so this is a company like network engineer and stand so it's a good company I know this I think long
time back I have given interview. So again you can see deep understanding of routing switching again SD van okay
because SD van is the latest thing in the market but if I teach you directly SD van you will not be able to
understand because to learn SD van we all have to learn about routing switching properly okay so that's why
we are learning this course because why I'm telling you this again and again so that you attend the CCNA CCNP classes
regularly so once Once you know the routing switching when you know the CNS CCNP then you will be able to configure
these devices are called SD van you can see here V manager okay so this is the
thing we are going to learn in very very advanced that's called SD van okay so obviously this we are covering NP okay
so there is a separate batch for SD van technology but after five 6 months okay
so just stay with us for next one year Okay.
So let's start the lab. Now you know at least okay why we are doing these labs because first we have to learn how to
make networks. And when we say I want to make networks that is called what?
Implementation. So today is our first day to implement a small project. Are
you guys ready for the first project? Okay. We will say lab also project also.
But when we say project it would be more fancy. It would be more interesting that
you are doing some implementation project. Again I'm saying guys some freshers they learn CCNA CCNP. Okay they
know they feel like I will get a job then I will configure networks. But as a fresher you will not get chance to
configure network devices. If you get a chance then it is good but for initial
one or three years you will not get devices in your hands to configure
because as a engineer as a fresher you'll be getting jobs like knock engineer monitoring
okay monitoring kind of jobs these small job roles because just tell me if you
are a big company owner suppose you are um uh one of the big company um director
or founder okay and you guys are implementing a big big project and these
devices what you are buying like if you go to Cisco ASR router okay so these
devices they are they will cost more than one CR approx more than that also
sometimes okay so just imagine if this device has a cost of more than 1 cr okay
it's around 1 million Not 1 million is too much in dollars. So
just calculate I I think $50 $60,000 appro. Yeah. Okay. So now no company
will hire pressure to configure these devices. Are you getting my point guys?
Okay. So because when people learn CCNA, CCNP on the first nobody tell them that
you will not be getting job directly configuration and then they search for configuration only because they apply
for network engineer role and companies are hiring them for monitoring and they
do not have any monitoring knowledge right because they feel like sir I have done OPF I have done BGP but that is
good when you have 2 three years of industry experience when you have no experience then just like water. Okay,
be flow with like uh go with the flow. If you are getting a knock engineer job,
go for no engineer. If you're getting a network support engineer, go for network support. And if you don't get a job
related to network, even if you have to start your career with IT support, you have to start your career with IT
support also. Are you getting my point guys? I'm why I'm telling you all this because I'm
setting the right expectation from this batch. So if any pressure is here so do
not expect that people will give you the real routers and switches in your hands and say hey man we are waiting from you
from last many many years you are here so please configure them.
Okay so they already have good guys they are hiring you because they want you to be networking network monitoring and
all. Okay so just start with basics. Okay. Don't try to u but yes if you get
a good job uh if you go to any company like
like AEL AT&T stren level three go and
if you get any configuration then it would be great also
but uh out of 10 jobs one job may give
you the configuration but nine jobs will give you monitoring and basics work. Okay. So let's uh start with the
configuration. Okay. So now you can see these are the devices router. Okay. So
you can see here. Okay. So this is the icon of router. So what we will do here? We will take one router here 4331.
Okay. So this router we are taking this router shape icon is this model 4331.
Okay. So after some classes I will tell you the difference between 4331 okay or
some models okay but right now we are just using one router.
Then we have a switch here. This is called 29606. Okay. This is a very normal switch of
Cisco. The advanced switches are also like 3560. You can see here this is different
type of multi-layer switch. Okay. But if you go to the physical mean if you see
them in the real world there is no such a difference. You can see here
can you see that this is the top this is the router and this is the front view
this is the back view if you click here. So you can see this is the front view Cisco 4300 series. Okay. There is a
power cable, power off button. This is like USB port, console port and this is
the back side where you can add extra modules. I will discuss about the modules. Okay. So I know you have lot of
questions curiosity and all. So just hold on. So you can see here this both
switches are same. Then why we are saying this device is a multi-layer.
Okay. So this this icon represent this is a layer 2 switch. Okay. This is a
layer 2 switch which cannot do routing. But this is called layer multi-layer
switch or layer three switch. It has two names. One is multi-layer switch or you can say that this is layer three.
Okay. Because this router works on which layer? Layer three. Router is also layer
three device. Okay. So layer switch is layer two device. But this multilayer is a combo
of layer to switch and router. Are you getting my point? So if you
combine them, if you plus them. Okay. So I'm not saying the whole uh you will get
all functionality but you will get this you got an idea today.
Okay. Yeah. Okay. So let me remove that
because layer three switch we will do later on. As of now we will go with the normal router and switches. Okay.
So what is our first project? The first project that we have two
departments. Okay. Let's say this department is called student.
Okay. And we have another department where we call this as a teacher.
Okay. So you can give any example guys. You can take support marketing also. You
can give any name. Okay. You can give any name like uh administration, research department.
Okay. Student and teacher would be normal. I think we can start here. So
this is a layer three device and so um I always say sales marketing
because every company has sales and marketing. So that would be better also.
Okay. So now you can see sales has lot of computers 1 2 3 4 and marketing also
has few laptops. Okay. So how these department so let's do some
small lab inside this lab. So we will use this cable. Okay. And how I'm taking lot of laptops
together because when you do practical okay you will see that I have to take
laptop one by one like one by one right but if you press on uh what we call
control button control button control button if you press on control button
and in Mac there is a command button. Okay so control button and just click now this laptop but is in your hands and
you can just click here and add as many laptops. So once you want to just come
out from this uh mode this is called bulk tool kind of. So just click on that
same again. Okay. So if you take one by one you have to click this icon again
and again. But if you just press control button and then click. Okay. Then you can add multiple devices. And this
nobody can teach you. You have to do practice then only you will understand. Okay.
devices. Just use the control button and you can add as many devices. Okay. So I
need only four four laptops because I have two departments. Okay. So now I'm going to use automatic cable. I can tell
you that this cable is also important straight through but I think cabling chapter would be a different chapter
right now. So initial beginning level as a beginners use this automatic cable.
Okay. So automatic cable. So just uh click on laptop add on the switch. Click
on the laptop add on the switch. Click on the laptop add on the switch. So this
is very very easy if you understand that you have to just click and connect the cables. Okay. But if you see the real
world that would be little different right because you have to just imagine you have to buy cables then you have to
connect the cables with the laptops with lot of things are there in the industry
okay but as a normal student as an what we call as a top view from the top view
we understand we have to connect laptops with switches right so in the real world
what was happening so you can see this This is my server room. Lot of cables,
these computer cables are coming in the server room, right? So these laptops are
like this. Obviously, you will not place them in the server room. Not laptop on laptop also. This is a little funny in
packet tracer. Naz,
right? So this is just just try to understand this will not happen. Right? But this is just again this is a very
good software uh for freshers because they can just uh uh do some
like try to do. Okay. So but yes because when
you work on logical view logical whenever you work on logical your
physical view always mess up.
Okay. But during the time after 2 three four practicals you will able to
configure directly with on physical view also. Okay. But as a beginner I would
recommend you to just go with the logical view. Okay. So practical logical view. Okay. Okay. We
will do our first three four practicals on logical view and then in between I can show you physical view also. Don't
worry. Okay. But yes logical view is here. So now what we will do?
Okay. So tell me one thing. If I give you IP 192 168
uh let's say uh 5 1.1
then.23.4. So if I assign these three four IPs
to all four computers tell me will they able to communicate with each other? If
I give them these IPs,
so many people are saying yes. So remember this is which class? Class C.
In class C, we check the first three portions. So tell me the first three
groups are same or not? Yes, they are same. Right? So it means
they will talk to each other. Right? So now I go to this side. I give here 1521.
0.1 152 1 0.2 0.3
0.4 Okay. So tell me will they talk? If four if I give this IP to all four computers
will they talk? Yes. Because the first two groups are also matching. Okay. Even if I give this
IP 1.3 1.4. Now tell me
yes. they will again talk because in class B we only check the first two
groups because by default okay here we are
talking about by default but in companies we can do subnetting but you
don't know subnetting yet so as of now let's go with the simple language okay
I'm simply so now uh to make it more easy guys I'm
doing I'm using class C here again. Okay. So that you understand more uh
easy. So I say 2.1 2.2 23 2.4. Okay. So
now you can see again three groups are same. Yes. So it means they will also
talk with each other. Right. So now how to give them IP address. So when you
click on this laptop 8 or something this is name of laptop. Okay. But in packet
tracer you just click on the laptop name. And just you can type your IP why
because so that you understand that this laptop I'm going to give IP laptop 192.1 this is good for diagram
okay when you because laptop name
could be any right yes packet tracer okay so that we able to design a real uh
kind of network so that we design because in real world we use some tools
to design my topology that is like Microsoft Vio.
Okay. Microsoft Vio. Here we configure network
diagrams. Okay. So all companies are using these
tools to make their company network designs. You can see this is one of the
design.
Okay. Okay. So you can see we have connectivity like this this this. So this is a simple tool. If you get any
trial version and all you guys can track that okay but I would recommend you you can use this tool also draw.io.
This is a free tool draw.io. Okay. So please check this.io.
Okay.
Okay. So you can use here and say uh practical ABC something and choose
that I want to make the network diagram. You can see already network diagrams are here. Okay. But uh create
like this. Okay. So now you can scroll here and some you can search here
router. You can see we got the router icon. Yeah. So we have need a switch also.
You can see this. This is the switch. Okay. So we need two switches and eight
laptops. So the same type of design you can create here also. Ctrl C crt control V.
So this is how you are going to configure it for your company and all. But yes again freshers
this type of things will come little
later to you because uh but yes if you join any startup and all
then maybe they will give you chance uh to build network diagrams also. Okay. So
now you can see use this cable. Okay. So now just click here and click here like
this.
Okay. And uh you can connect more.
Okay. So it's like uh
Okay. Okay. So kind of uh the design you guys want to implement. So I don't have
too much uh I'm not giving too much time here but yes this is how you can build
some diagrams using these type of cables and all. Okay. Yeah you can create some 3D designs and
all. Okay. So with some practice you will be able to create good diagrams. Okay.
So once you know so this is how companies give di make diagrams and they
uh store in their offices or they just take some small print outs uh that every
network engineer has the design but packet tracer is still giving you the option to design your topology.
Okay then give IP address. So I give you three rules. So first we always design
the topology. Remember this rule. Okay. Design the
topology then assign IP address.
Okay. Then verify basic connectivity. Verify connectivity.
Okay. And then fourth ping. Okay. Verify connectivity is ping only
using ping. Okay. So when as a beginner step okay as a beginner you all have to
remember these three steps design the topology first we make sure we we will design my
topology very clearly okay so let's give IP here on the laptop 192 162.1 because
if a design is not ready then you will not be able to configure the things properly
okay so now you see this picture. Okay. Now tell tell me guys if you see
my two department sales and marketing you can see all four four computers in
both switches. Yes or no? Can you see exactly what IP has I have given to
which laptop? Right. Good. So now it's time to connect
router. We use the gain automatic cable. Click here and click on the router.
Okay. But what I see FA05 this FA means fast Ethernet
which is called 100 Mbps. This switch has a capacity to forward my
data at what speed 100 Mbps 100 Mbps. That's why it is called fast
Ethernet. That is a short form of fast Ethernet FA. And this is gig 0. This is a short
form of giga Ethernet which is called 1,000 Mbps or 1GB. You can say 1,000
Mbps or we can say that this is 1 Gbps. So tell me which is faster.
Obviously 1GB. Yeah.
Right. So you can see these all laptops are also
fast Ethernet. Yes. Can you see FL000000? And if you do not see these port
numbers, port number, if you can't see the port numbers, you go and go to preferences in
the Cisco packet tracer setting. Go to preferences. Okay. And enable this option always show
port label. You can see fourth fifth option always show port labels. You can
see sometimes it is disabled option. So when I click here it will show me the
port numbers you can see
right. So enable this option you go to packet tracer settings preferences in the first
fourth always show port labels make sure this is enabled and if you want to increase the font size if your packet
tracer is very small and if you want to configure you can change the setting from the font option. Only these two
settings are required from the preferences. Okay, that's it.
So now if you need this bigger port, you click
on this icon, this red cable or somewhere here. Just click on the cable,
the red option. You can see the cable is out and click on the switch again. And now it is asking you you want to add in
fast Ethernet or giga. I'm just adding in the right port gigaput because both
side I want gigap port. But if you have a confusion sir if I don't add in giga
port uh is there any problem? No you can still do the practical but in real world
one side your port is 1 GB the other side is 100 MB. So do you think it is a
good way? No because my bandwidth will choke. Why?
Why your bandwidth will choke? Suppose you have 1 GB internet. Okay. Suppose you have 1 GB internet in
office. Your router internet is 1GB. Your router link is also 1GB. So when
you forwarding 1 GB speed to the switch. So switch will receive how much MB?
100 MB. Are you getting my point? Some
that it is a big pipe. Okay. You are forwarding the data with very high big pipe.
Okay. Like data is coming like very big 1 GB like this.
Okay. But your switch is not able to digest this
and he's just taking this much bandwidth. See
so it is like a big water pipe. Then the pipes are getting smaller and smaller
because after that the link is 100 MB. So tell me will they able to consume the
high bandwidth? Will they able to watch movies with 1GB speed? These laptops
laptops 1 GB speed even if you upgrade your switches. Okay.
So try to understand that way. But right now consider if I don't have 100
I'm okay with 100 MB in laptop but still I want at least switch between router
and switch at least I should get high bandwidth right because 1 GB will be
distributed in further four laptops maybe everyone will get max if everybody's downloading and watching at
least one uh computer will get 200 250 Mbps
Yeah. So that's the thing. That's the logic. That's the logic. I just uh
Okay. So, so how I'm typing on my screen this this is a notepad file here you can see note.
So when I say gig ethernet is 1 GB. So this is just a note. I just taken the note from here and then just I'm writing
it because I'm trying to build what as I mentioned design the topology
design I'm trying to improve my design so that I will be able to configure this
properly. So now you can see I added switch to switch giga port and then
again if I go to router and switch you can see gigap port this side also I want to add in giga port. Okay. So I added a
gigap port this side also.
So if our bandwidth is 100 Mbps then we can use fast Ethernet or we have to go with gigaport no mesh if you have 100
Mbps internet. Okay, still the uplinks. Okay, even if your internet is 100 Mbps,
but still it is recommended that you should have at least 1 GB port
nowadays between router and switches because all these computer will send data.
All four computers will forward the data on this lane. It is like my national highway. Consider if everyone is sending
the data, there will be a traffic jam on this road. Are you getting my point? So
it it is always better. Giga port means 1 GBT.
What is giga port? Giga port means gigra 1 GB port is called giga port. Fast
Ethernet is called 100 MB. There no there is Ethernet port also 10 MB but we
do not use it Ethernet nowadays. Ethernet is only 10 MB.
Okay. Now you can see we have designed the topology very very well. But understand that these two are different
networks. Yes. Sales and marketing these are two different groups. Can you see these these three octets are matching or
not? Tell me now. The sales and marketing first three
groups are matching or not? They are not matching. Why NASA you are saying yes?
Please check the first three groups.
I hope you got the point.
Giga is 100 MBS. No, Giga 01 is don't worry about these number 01 GI 0. If
you're getting confused sir why this is GI 01 this is 0000 that is basically
because router has slots. Router has these slots. Okay. So the first slot is
called 0 then one then two. Okay. But whenever any number start with GI you
have to just focus on GI not 0 1 0 0 0 right now because that's called slot sub
slot and then port number. Okay. So the first zero is for slot then for sub slot
then for interface name. Okay. And this this is a switch where we
do not have too many ports. So this is just basically you can say that slot and interface because a device with more
powerful uh configuration has a sub slot also. Okay. So that's why we have 01
slot and interface. So again this is just not
uh good to know right now because again focus on the lab not on these things.
Okay. So I'm just removing this Lord SL thing. Okay. that is the only theory
topic. So again just uh focus on the lab. I'm just removing the clutter from
the screen. Okay. So we have a clear we should have the clear diagram. Okay. So yes we
should have the clear diagram now. We already have right. So you can see that
why we are adding router here. Why we have added router here?
Why? Because there are two different networks and these two different networks will talk to each other with
the help of router right with the help of
yeah connect two different network. Good.
Okay. Now so these computers will not be able to talk to another another
computers because they are in different network and whenever we want to go in different network we need gateway so it
means we will assign IP address one we need one more IP okay so maybe 192 168
okay or let's take a round figure 1 so this 1.100
you can give any IP from the group but it should also match the first three groups. So I'm adding 1 IP to the router
because that IP will become my gateway IP.
1 will become my gateway. Okay. So the another side also computer has 2.12.3.
So it means I have to give one IP here. So I can say 200 or 2.200 also. You can
give 250 also any IP you can say 2.5 also okay just remember first three
groups should match and then you can put any number like you can put also 220
okay 150 170 130 whatever so I'm just adding here so generally in real world
we give the first IP okay like 1.1 or 2.1 to the routers or we can take always
around figure like 200 100 also. Okay. So there is no mandatory that we have to
give 1.1 to the router only. No, this is not mandatory. You can give 1.23. But
normally in world in the uh best practices we give 1.1 or we can give the
round figure 1 2. So it's not a topic of discussion basically. So you can give
any IP. So I have given 1.00 2.00.
So again I'm using these notepad files from here. I'm not give when I type here like this it does not mean I have
configured the device. I because I told you I'm designing the topology only. I'm
in the first thing only design the topology.
Okay. So I'm making my topology ready. Once my topology is ready then only I
will know now where to go where to configure. Yes. So this diagram looks
good. Yes, some people are doing lab with me. I think Sumit and some guys more.
Yeah, if you have time, if you feel like you have the good speed, you can definitely do. But I recommend you to
understand, okay? Not rush because uh you can practice after the class also.
Okay. So now it's time to know about router more. So we have designed the topology and let's give IP address only
to the computers. Very very easy. Go to the laptop. Go to desktop.
Go to IP configuration. And you can see IPv4 address. Let let me repeat again.
Go to the laptop. Go to this IP configuration.
And you can see static IP. Okay. So here I'm giving 192 168 1.1.1
and when you click on subnet mask automatically we got 3255 because we have to match first three
portion in class because my first three groups are my network part that's why
there is a 3 * 255 because if you plus 1 1 remember uh binary if you plus
everyone you get 255 right so 8 + 8 + 8 is
24. Okay. So, class C is called /24 also. If you heard somewhere, if you
have never heard /24, it's okay. Okay. So, this is also called /24. But ignore
if you don't know right now. So, my gateway will be 192 168
192 168 1.00. Okay. So, I've given the IP. Just close
this window. That's it. Very simple. Let's do it fast now. Go to desktop IP
configuration IP and then the gateway IP 1. That's it. Let's go to third
computer. 1.3 192 161.00 is my gateway.
Let's go to the fourth machine. 1.4 192 161.00 00. Okay. So, gateway is very
very important if you want to talk to another network. So, without gateway you
can talk only in the LA network. Means without gateway all four computers can talk to each other. But if they want to
go outside then we need a default gateway. So this is my gateway 1.00 and
this IP belongs to this router. Okay. So this IP is different because these LAN
networks are connected to this GI00001. Okay. So if you go to physical window so
you can see on the router we have two cables. So basically when
this cable is called interface we are giving the IP on these because when we
add the cable on this port okay so whenever we adding the cable on this
port this is called port. But whenever we give IP address to the port that we
call interface normally. Okay. So because you can say
USB port, giga port, Ethernet port. So as a normal uh lay man, we can say that
port. But whenever we talk about networking, we call them in the real world interface. My interface is down.
Okay. But we do Indians do not care about port and interfaces. We always say port down.
Okay, port is down. Port is down. Port is down. But in Cisco books, you will
feel you will see port instead of port.
Light. Yeah.
Okay. So,
right
we can do in a fast mode also but
okay. So 1 2 we will give these IPs now.
Okay. So these are the IPs we have assigned. Everything is good now.
Okay.
IP. Okay. Let's see. So my design is ready. Now let's assign the IP on my
second side. 2.1 go to computer desktop IP 2.1 gateway. This said gateway is
200. Make sure you add the right gateway because if you type a wrong gateway this
computer will not work. Okay. So the gateway of my computer IP
and my gateway IP should be in the same network. Okay.
My computer's IP and my gateway should be in the same network.
Okay, let me configure 2.2 2.2 200 Let's go. 2.4 four.
Okay. So, we have given the IP guys.
Okay. Like u so right now we are using this topology. We are giving gateway so
that these computers can talk to another network and in real world why we need router so that you can connect with the
internet because internet is also a different network.
We have small routers in our home that are also there because my home network
is a different network. Internet is a different network. Okay.
So now it's time to assign IP to the router also. Okay. Now router is a
little
Okay. So now we have to understand little bit here. Okay. So I already mentioned here like if any people if
anyone has very very old laptop. Okay. So I've added one Google drive link guys. You can just go to Google drive
link and there is a packet racer student version. Okay. If new version is working fine in
your laptop. Okay. Then there no need to install this. But in case if anyone has
very very old laptop like Baba Adama right 5 years, 7 years, 10 years old
model. Okay. They can also do the practicals. Okay. But if I give any file
to them maybe then there is a little problem but at least they can do the practicals okay with this 6 uh this
version. Okay I'm just checking the Cisco has the mobile packet tracer
or not because earlier it was there in the Android store
but I think they removed
yeah no packet tracer in mobile now.
computer.
Yeah, I have already shared this. Okay, I'm giving you the notes link and so you will get these notes. Okay, already till
two three classes these notes are already uploaded here. My handwritten notes. So this is your what we call the
digital notes here. Okay. So now you can see Cisco model 4200 series
Gopal I'll take your questions don't worry let's focus here
okay so this is a Cisco 4200 series router ISR
ISR means integrated service router. So you can see here
power socket. Then there is a USB port. Then there is console port which is
called management port also. Console port is also called management port. Then these are the gigap port where you
add cables. Okay. So this is 4221 and this is 4321. This is a different model.
Okay. So what do you see here? These are called gigabit ports and these are the
some like you can remove this uh what we call these steel plates kind of modules empty modules and you can add these type
of extra modules if you need a more port. Okay. So this is one of the example.
So how we connect a router for the first time. Okay. So basically you have to buy
a cable which is called console cable. Okay. So you can see we need to buy a
console cable. We will add that in the console port and then we add in the USB
port something. Okay. So sometime in very very old cables do not have like in
my computer nowadays do not have this this port which is called serial. So there is a serial to USB converter.
Sometimes you have to use the converter also. Okay. So but normally that is not required because all latest devices has
this mini USB cable. This mini USB is very very common cable right. So um you
can just have this and use in the mini USB port.
You can see here in some models you will see this mini USB port. You can see small console.
So the console has small console and this cable you can use and you can
access the router. But whenever we connected this cable like this we need a
terminal software. Okay. We need a terminal software like put a secure CRT
teraton. Okay. But as a packet tracer again I'm considering you guys are
beginner. Okay. So what we do here? How to take the command line interface? CLI
means command line interface of the router. So basically you have to
use a laptop. Okay. And we have to use a cable. You
can see see console cable. Can you see the after automatic cable? This is a console.
So when you click on the console you can see I want to add in RS232 because packet tracer is still telling
you that okay connect in the RS232 uh just use this and then in the router
say console. Okay in the console. So remember console
opposite side RS232. Let me do it again. I go to the
automatic cable and you can see I will add in the USB
then USB cable is not there but if I go to the scroll there is a USB cable also.
So USB USB malo and then you add in the USB console. So we can use the USB cable
console also. Okay which is which is like I have mentioned here. key
cable. This is called USB console cable and all the latest devices has this cable and in old devices you have this
cable RS232 cable. There we have to use the console
RS232 and in the router console because in my router we have two console cables.
You can see here if I click on the router from here
I get a physical appear window here you can see this is my console and this is
my simple console. Okay this is the front view the upper side you see the
back side. Okay but right now all the modules are empty here. Okay. So we have only four these two
four ports in the router. Okay. So now only we need one cable. So
I think in 2023 I can say that you guys can use the normal USB console. Okay. So
once you get the console cable USB and all then you need a software like puty and all. So just in the packet racer
in the desktop there is a option called terminal software
when you add a cable in the router then you need a software like puty or something that okay which is freely
available in the market just download and all and once you download
okay so just you have to say serial connection let me give you the screenshot
so so once Once you add a cable, you just
have to open the software by clicking on the serial thing. So click on serial and
just click on the open, you will get the router access. Okay, like same way in
packet tracer, this is your putty software terminal. And when you say okay, you can see
directly I got the router access for the first time.
Clear everyone because router has no screen, right?
Router is router do not come with Samsung TV.
Okay, it has no display. So your computer is the display of your router
and switches. So just you have to use the mini console for the first time
because this is the first time we are doing this is the what we call the new
device basically zero configuration because we do not have anything.
I can maximum zoom like this only you can zoom from your side and nail I think.
Okay. So, so this is the cable and these are the by default setting. When you
click on the serial now, it will give you some all basic setting. You do not have to change any setting. That's it.
Okay. I've already added the screenshot here. Okay.
Okay. Okay. So let's take a break guys uh for 5 minutes and then uh we are going to configure the router now with
the very very first command. Okay no GI in router right now but yes
in advanced Cisco softwarees you can do with GI but 90% of the network engineers
they do with CLI 95% even. Okay. Okay. So let's take a break guys. I'm going
for five minutes. Let's take yeah till 10:45 I think better 7 minutes 7 minutes
timer okay so come after 6 7 That's
Okay, time over. Okay, so let's configure.
Yes, praat. I'll share the nodes. Don't worry.
Okay. So, uh, so let's start the lab guys. Okay.
So, as I mentioned, uh, so when you got the router access, I'm audible. Please
confirm in the chat.
I'll set the batches.
Okay. If you want, I can increase the gain. Hello. Now it's better.
Okay. Click it. Okay. So, let's configure the router.
Uh, so now you have two option like connect a laptop. Okay. Connect a
laptop. Use the cable USB console or console.
Add in the USB. Okay. Add in the USB console and just
click on the laptop. Go to the terminal.
Just press okay. So we go the router access or the more easy thing in packet
tracer because packet tracer is good for beginners, right? So no need to connect any laptop or something like that. You
just click on router and just go to CLI. That's it.
Are you getting my point? So just you have to click on the router and get the CLI directly from here. Okay. So now
this is the first time you guys see Cisco router if you are a new guy.
So always remember this is the first question that you want to auto set up the router. So always say no I do not
want to set up auto. So the first question
you always say no I don't want auto setup I will do manual configuration of
Cisco router. So uh click on no. Okay.
So now you can see this router with greater than symbol symbol. This mode, this router, this
mode is called user mode.
So when you say yes then it will start asking random question okay what is the router name IP address. So it is like
like for the people who do not want to become network engineers still they want to configure router.
Yes is for those people. Okay. So when you get this window this
is called user mode. Okay. So the first window whenever so there are three
modes. User mode, privilege mode, global mode. So user mode is for limited basic
commands. Okay. Where you do some monitoring stuff and all. Then we have privilege mode. Privileged mode.
Privilege execution. Exe means execution. User execution mode,
privilege execution mode where we get some basic configuration and some uh
provide access to all other router commands mean it is a still we use basic
commands here in the user mode. So some top level commands we access in
privilege mode and in the global configuration because the name defines
configuration. So global configuration will help us to configure the entire
router, entire system. So first how to go to user mode.
So these three symbols. Okay, let me show you practically.
Okay, so when I say enable, so I'm in which mode right now? I'm in user mode right now. So I'm just typing this is
just a comment. Okay, user mode. This mode is called user mode. So when I say
enable then I'm in the router with hash.
Router with this hash. This is called which mode? Privilege mode. Okay. So
whenever a router shows you hash that's privilege mode. After if I want to go to
global top mode, configure terminal. Okay, let's do again. If I want to go
back, exit, exit. Okay, again I'm in user mode. Enable and then configure
terminal. I'm in the router configuration mode. So which two commands are required to go to the
global configuration mode. enable and after that configure terminal.
Okay. So there is a short form if I go back so you can say enable and some
people type conf also. This is a short form configure terminal short form conf.
You can you can see that I'm in the configuration mode.
Okay. Very good guys.
Okay. Sanjie Sanjiv is asking me to enable.
Okay. Increase the font size.
Okay, this is the maximum I can do now.
Okay. So let's do again uh exit enable confett
and after that I want to configure this interface
interface gig 0 0 right but before I
configure anything let me change the router name you can say that host name
and type your name okay let me type my name at
okay so you can configure with any router name like Dilli gateway one.
Okay, you can say Bangalore gateway. Okay, because routers are called gateways also sometimes. So in the you
can say this is my Bangalore location Bangalore branch
router. Okay. So some companies have these type of names also. Bangalore branch RTR router. So this is so
whenever they log in they will come to know okay this is the Bangalore router. Okay.
So you can give any name with the host name command. Host name and then give
name. Okay. So company name or router name whatever.
So you can give any name. Company name, location name. So you can give any name
here with the host name command. Yes, recording is going on. Don't worry.
Kevin Frederick's
Okay. So, host name ABC. Host name XYZ.
You can give any name whatever you like. Okay.
Okay. So once you change the host name it's time to
configure
device. So already you can see here I have already created lab here. You can
see this you can do the same lab and here I have already config given the configuration also. Okay. So in previous
nodes I think we have added two two laptops one server. Okay. So but today
I'm taking four laptops. So it is similar like this. Okay. So how to
configure? So I go to this GI000000
interface. Okay. So I'm in which mode? Config mode. Yeah. Config mode. I'm in the config
mode. Interface. Please close the zoom recording window
button. Uh that is from your side bro. I don't have that access.
My screen is my screen. None of your screen. And your screen is your screen.
Interface GIG 000 0
R 3. So interface GIG 000.
Okay. So which IP I want to give? I will write very simple IP address. I want to
give 192 168 1.00 100 right? So remember in class C so
whenever I give any IP address how many 255 we have to give here three. So this
represents my network bits. Okay. So what is subnet mask? So subnet mask
represents network bits. Okay. So which means that
I will come to know that I'm in the same network or not. Okay. So when I say 190
to 160 to 100 I'm saying my first three groups are my network part that's why
3255 because my first three portion is my network part that this network should
match with all the all these computers then they will be in the same network
to your computer octed all three computers first three
octets and route first three octed should be in same network that's why I'm giving 3 * 255.0
okay because 255 represents network part so I have class 3 so that's why I give
3255.0 zero enter and by default you can see there is a red light on the Cisco
router but there is a green lights on the switches even if you go to the physical mode so you can see there is no
green light on the router but switches has these small small green lights
why because router ports are shut down by default router port by default router
ports are shut down by default that's why I have to enable them by giving a
command no shutdown. Shutdown means disable, right? No
shutdown. I don't know why Cisco has done that. No shutdown. Make it easy,
man. Just say enable. But enable is to enter from user mode to privilege mode,
right? So no shutdown command is mandatory because my interface, my port
is down by default. Okay. No shutdown. Enter. So once I give
no shutdown, there is a message also that this interface is changed state to
up. You can see a green light also on the router left side. Yes or no?
Yeah, orange. So this orange light is called amber light. Okay. So this is
basically switch is trying to check is there any loop or not. So switch is the intelligent device. It is checking is
there any loop. Okay. Is there any loop or not? Now you can see it is becoming green now. Okay. There is a there is a
protocol spanning tree that is running. Okay. That we will run in uh further
classes. But right now you can see when I give no shutdown command automatically
the interface come into the green state in packet tracer even in the physical window. Can you see green light on one
interface? Now small small little little light.
Yes. Yes. Uh if interface is showing error disabled you can do shut no shutter.
Okay. So now you can see there is a GI00001. Okay. So there is 0000
is a different port. 0001 is a different port. Okay.
So now I go to this another port GI.
So you can type the same or u exit because
I have to go back to another mode or it's better to take exit initially. So
you can say again I'm in the config mode directly I can go directly in the interface.
Okay. So you can use tab button also like like you say in N and then press
the tab button. Auto completion mode like in Linux also you have this feature. So if you configure if you type
some commands in Linux autocomp completion mode like when you say int and use tab button automatically the
command will be written interface then I say gi tab automatically it is writing
gigabit ethernet but I will not write the full I will go with the small short
gig 0001 now again I'm the config if mode which
is called interface mode. This whenever you see if now
whenever you see this if after config means you are in the interface mode.
So then you give IP address 192 168.200.
Okay. So what would be the subnet mask? Whatever subnet mask we are using in the PC 3 * 255.0.
Okay. Which means my first three groups are my network part. The 3255 means my
first three portions are my network part. And tell me what I have to do now.
One thing is pending. My router port is shut down. So I have
to say no shutdown.
Yeah. So I have done no shutdown. And the after sometime this port will become
green. Yeah. So what will happen it's very easy configuration in the
notes guys I have already added a screenshot this is how you can add computers you can use IPs and all okay
and I have already added the commands also very simple you can see config terminal interface GI000000
then you give the IP then you go to another interface you give another IP
okay so you can do the same lab or you and try to configure with two switches,
three switches later on. Okay. So now we have added so now it's time to again I
told you design the topology that is done. Yes. Raise hand.
After that we have given the IP addresses everywhere. Yes. Now it is time to check my verify
the connectivity means now it's time to check the ping. Right. So ping check. We
will check the ping. So we go to the first computer.
Okay. We go to the first computer and ping I mean the 192 1681.1.
Okay. So if you ping your gateway if you ping your gateway it means you have the
reachability to your router. So can I ping my router? Can I ping my gateway?
are on. Yes, I can ping my gateway. Now it is time to check the ping. Can I ping the
another gateway 200? Let's test. Can I ping the 200? Yes, I can ping from here
also. It means my packet is going from
my packet is going from computer to switch switch to router. Okay, because I
pinged the GI0000 and after that I can ping till 200. Yes or no? So now further
I want to ping maybe let's ping 2.1. Now this is how my packet will go and packet
will come back and give me a reply because whenever you ping the ping will come back. That's why it is always share
reply. It will always show a reply. Okay, let me show you.
So if I go to the router, sorry, go to the computer again and I type 192 1682.1
ping 192 1682.1. Okay, so let's see if it will ping or
not. Yes, the first packet got dropped. Okay,
we will come to know why this got dropped. But if you ping any further time, there is no drop. and a ping
basically let's focus on ping forgot about why there is a drop we will cover this later on but we got the replies yes
or no your first practical is done almost
okay so now I want you to see that first I ping my gateway then I ping the
another gateway okay then I ping the further last destination yes or no
but what What if? Okay. So, what if I type here one more
command trace RT trace RT means trace route. I want to see how my computer is
forwarding the traffic to another computer and how my traffic
uh is following which path mean which path my computer is taking to go
to my destination. Okay. So when I say trace RT I want to go to 2.1 how my
traffic is going let's see 192 162.1. So can you see that my first go to my
gateway and after that I ping 2.1. Why it is not showing me 1. It is
showing me 1 but it is not showing 2.00 because 1 is also router IP and 2.00 is
also router IP. It it's like you have two names whether your
friends calls you ABC or maybe your parents call you XYZ but still you know
this is your name right. So the router has two names. Now you can say that one
is the left side name one is the router second name. Okay, that's okay because
now if you trace route so it is showing you the your gateway not showing the other gateway because after 1 because
this is the router IP right now for this computer but if I trace route from the opposite side
say trace route if I trace route the 192 16.1
now this time you can see you see your own gateway because as a first hop you see your first your own gateway and
after that the device. Okay, right now we have only one router here. But if I
go to the real terminal and if I go and type here trace r okay in Linux in the
MacBooks you have trace root command. So you say google.com okay trace root google.com. So now you
can see this first IP is my router IP which is behind me small router not that
small it it's that big okay so after that you can see there is a IP which is
maybe ISP IP then maybe this is the big ISP router IP this is maybe further IP
so you can see I'm using ATL something or something like that but to go from my
computer to google.com this almost 15 16 routers I'm crossing
how many routers are and my computer is crossing till google.com almost 15 16
routers you can see 15 opt
google it is taking around 15 routers to go to
my not my google.com
Okay. So I'm talking in general that how many routers are taking. Okay. So depends on the location my packets are
going from source to destination. But right now understand such a big logic
today what you learned that even if 15 routers are there. So just imagine how
big the internet is that lot of routers millions of routers are there in the
like you can say in between you and google.com and still whenever you
forward a packet to router then what router is doing? The question is
okay use your brain do some little brainstorming that how router is
forwarding how router is forwarding packet which is coming on this cable and
forwarding the cable forwarding the same packet to this cable.
How router how router is forwarding traffic from
this side to this side. How?
Because router has a table that is called Okay, tell me if you want to go
from any location to any location, there is a sign boards, right? There is a sign
boards. Okay. Take right turn. Take right turn.
So what is this basically? Tell me in India we have lot of sign boards
everywhere in every country. I've seen that not every country I have visited. Sorry.
Uh so in many countries I have also seen that. So you can see this is actually telling me the
location. Okay, if you go want to go to this city, okay, just go 53 state aligar
means you can reach to destination for four cities on the same highway.
Okay, so the same way your router is like a sign board that traffic is coming
from this side. You you forward the packet to router and router will check
okay. Router will check a table which is called just press here exit. Exit come
to the privilege mode. Remember first mode is ex user mode. Enable enable. You
are in the privilege mode. And now it type here one command show ip route
router take decisions from this table show ip route. So when I
say show ip route right now it will look like what is this
abc d. Don't worry you will understand.
Okay. So this is
here is my thing. Okay. So when when you type show ip
route. So these above numbers you can ignore right now. But these are like
different different routing protocols we are going to use in future. But right now you can ignore that. So we have to
focus on the below part. Okay. Okay. So, we have to focus on the below part which
is uh after uh this like you can see the yellow box. Focus on the yellow box.
Okay. So now what is written over here that 1.0.
Okay. So you can see 1.0 0 is directly connected to GI0000 cable. So me 1.0. So
why it is saying 1.0 and here it is saying 2.0. You can see 1.0 and there is
2.0 also. You can see 2.0 is gigabit ethernet 001.
Okay. But why it is 1.02.0 because router cannot remember all computer IPs. Yes. router.
Just imagine if your if your company has 5,000 employees, router will not
remember all single IPs here because we always store the home address. Okay. So
tell me what is the home address of this network? The first IP of any subnet is
called home address or network ID. Okay. So it means my first IP is 1.0 0 which
is my network ID which will be used by routers to forward the traffic. So the
my home address all IP 1.1 1.2.4 1 all IPs belong to one family all IPs
belong to that family home address 1.0. So whether it is your computer, your
brother, your sister, whatever. Okay. So all these family members have a home
address. Yes or no? Yeah. So my router will store only the home addresses. So
when I say show ip route connected, so it will only show me the directly connected routes. So the C symbol
represents your directly connected means the cable we have attached with these networks. So tell me with these two
networks you have the direct connection direct cable. Yes or no?
in those networks. So you have the direct connectivity with these two networks. That's why these are saying CC
which means connected. So this 1.0 belongs to G00 and this 2.0
belong to G001. So now understand whenever my so when
you go from computer say I want to go to 2.1. So that I want to go to 2.1
right so how you are able to ping because the same packet computer give to
router and check here show ip route where is 2.1
router so you can see router is telling me if you want to go to 2.1 show ip
route this is very very very very important command guys for troubleshooting
please note it down Very important command. Very important. Then show it out.
This is very this is used in troubleshooting.
Okay. So now this uh so what a router is saying it's
saying known via connected distance is zero. Zero means uh remember
whenever you see any connected thing right the distance is always zero which is called administrative distance. So
the lower number is better. Okay. So we'll do it later on also. So metric is
zero that we will see later on also. But right now you see I am directly connected with which cable 0001.
If I want to go to 2.0 so computer forward the packet computer forward the
packet to router. router I want to go to 2.1 and router check the routing table
and say okay 2.1 page end if you want to go to 2.1 then go to this network and
this network is on which cable GI00001 and then router forward that packet to
000 1 and this packet will be moved to 0001
can you see that 001 Yes.
Okay. So because router is telling me everything, right? Router is telling me everything that okay go from this side
and now tell now packet will go to destination right packet will go to
destination because router knows and it will reach destination.
Okay. But when the packet comes back now your computer is saying I want to go
because this computer is going back. So 2.1 say I want to go back to 1.1. So
router will again check okay where is 1.1. So when packet is going back now it
is checking where is 1.1. Okay 1.1 is on 00000 it means when the packet is coming
from the opposite side. Okay. So at that time router will forward
traffic to G0. Okay. So what does this and how do you
understand now more more clearly. So whenever you go and forward traffic
from one location to another location the router is the device which is very very helpful and router makes the
routing table. The main command is show ip route. So I would recommend you to
type show ip route connected because if you sh type show ip route it
will display a big lot of things and also you will confuse why this l is there. So basically whatever IP you
assign in on the router that IP it will display and it is /32
because IP address is 32bit. Now the single IP is called /32. So ignore
that's why I'm telling you. So uh till that time you guys have uh uh what we
call uh you guys are in basic. So uh I would suggest you to use show ip route
connected and whenever you want to see how my traffic is going you can use the IP show ip route after that IP 1.1 this
is very very important commands
okay so these three commands I'm telling you to use show ip route connected show
ip route and then just type the IP name
so I'm just adding here Okay. Okay. So now if you want to see what IP
I have given on the router. So there is another command show ip interface brief.
So you can easily see that on this cable I have given this IP. On this cable I
have given this I
show in IP interface brief
some commands also do not work on packet tracer but don't worry we are not going to miss anything we will be covering
show ip interface brief so you can see these IPs are showing me up up to you D
interface both the interfaces are in up. Okay.
So we have done the good practical guys and
remember this thing design the topology assign IP address and then verify the
connectivity. Okay. So this lab is very very important. Okay. Because next classes
you will understand when you know this okay. So do not uh uh even if you miss
the class what we call if you do not revise tomorrow still after uh like you
have four five days to complete because tomorrow I think we will do two routers
slab which means uh with the static routing. So show command only run in privilege.
No Sanj you can run in any mode. Okay but it is better to run in show mode right now. But in case if you are in the
configuration terminal but still you want to run show ip route here so you have to use do show ip route
do you have to add do if you are in a different mode
okay like do show ip route connected okay like this
what if I give one of my computer IP address 1.0 Z then no you can't give home address to the computer. The first
IP which is called network ID and the broadcast IP which is called the last IP
you cannot assign to any computer. This is called broadcast which means all
computers broadcast. What is broadcast? How? Let me show you. The broadcast
means when you ping the broadcast IP all computers in your network will reply
you. This is very good if you want to because one of the student is asking in
that how to check how many devices are there in in my home network. Maybe your
neighbor is using right your Wi-Fi your brother has silently giving given
the Wi-Fi password. So ping 190 to 160 to 1.255
and now you can see all four devices how many devices how many devices are there
you can see 1.2 1.3 1 just ping one type 1.23.400
means 1.3.4 1.2 and 1. It will only show you your
own network devices. You can try your home network. So go and check your
public uh what is your IP. I think most of you have one network. So
try to ping 1.255 and you can see in my home network 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.9 like
these 67 mobile or mobile devices are there.
Yes, the shaman packet flow is there. Okay, it's there in my syllabus. I don't
know about others.
No, we cannot hack Wi-Fi password if we know the IP address. Earlier we used to hack but right now it is little tough
because Wi-Fi has lot of high securities nowadays.
Ranir is pinging the IP but he is not able to ping. So maybe it is blocked
some time uh companies block ping also. They do not want you to ping in your
network and all to protect from DOSs attacks and all.
Okay. Okay. So once you ping these devices, so remember whenever you ping
all these machines, okay, my computer is silently making one table which is
called ARP table. Okay, which table?
ARP. A RP. So can you see my computer is going to store all the computer IP with
their MAC addresses. Why my computer is doing that?
Because every time computer will directly give instruction
to the switch okay switch I want to go to maybe 1.4 four because whenever you
ping whenever somebody pings you okay all computers store their MAC addresses
okay so you can see I have stored the MAC addresses physical address is called MAC address basically so now if I want
to go to 14 okay so when I say I want to go to 192 16 to 14 okay so when I ping
here I already know that I give this MAC address
I I put this MAC address in my packet because if I don't have MAC address I
will put FFF which is called broadcast. Okay. So u
uh right now is this good for you? Yeah I think
that's becomes a different okay but still I give you basic idea.
Okay so you can see 1.4 it has the MAC address. Okay. So, so whenever I ping
now 1.4, whenever I ping 1.4, so my this is a switch here. I told you
this is a Cisco switch also. It also has a CLI. Cisco switch also has a CLI. So
right now you do not have to configure anything. Just say enable and type here show MAC address table. This is the only
command right now I want you to learn in switches. Show MAC address table.
Why this command is also important? Because when you are going from 1.1
so I say I want to go to 1.1 to 1.4. Okay. So how you will go?
Because my computer has the MAC address. So computer say okay 1.4
I want to go to this MAC address. Okay. So let me copy somewhere here. Let me
copy here. Okay. So remember this password. Okay, remember this password. I want to go here.
Okay, so if I show you, so my computer will ask the switch that I want to go to this 00 D 0 B A47
and switch will tell you okay if I if you want to go to this MAC address because switch work only on MAC address
not on IP address because this is a layer 2 device. Yes or no? So switches
work on MAC address. So when your computer gives this MAC address to switch I want to go to 00 D 0 BA47 the
switch will tell you okay if you want to go to this machine that is available on the port number FA04 so can you see this
cable is on.4 4 is on FA04. Yes or no? Here they go. If you move the cursor,
you see the port number, right? F A04. So this computer is attached to FA04
port number. So packet will automatically whatever packet you send to switch, switch will forward the
packet to this device because we have the MAC address table.
So what is happening? If you have the MAC address the switch the LAN network
will do unique cast. Okay. So if switch has MAC address and computer
also has MAC address in ARP table. What will happen in that case?
So if switch has MAC address in MAC address table and computer has MAC address in the ARP table
then bandwidth will be mostly uniccast. Okay. If switch has MAC address and
computer also has a MAC address in the ARP table in this case your company will not have too much broadcast.
Okay. So this will be the best so idea that you should not have too much
broadcast. Broadcast means you sending packet to one device but packet is going
to every device in your network. Okay, that will waste my bandwidth. Right? So
it's better to always send the packet to the right destination and these MAC
address table and the ARP table is helping me a lot.
Okay. So right now I'm considering I'm not going in much detail what is ARP, what is happening, okay, what is AR? So
definitely we will cover but right now just uh uh what I'm trying to explain
you try to understand at least 90% of that because I'm covering very very
basic and very easy language okay so I do not want any single student miss
those things that's why
yes bandwidth will save subnetting will be covered manish don't worry here.
So in my classes you do not have to ask about the topics. Just focus on what I'm
delivering. It will come because uh
if I teach you subnetting right now then uh what will happen? You will not
be able to understand practically subnetting. So before I do subnetting I teach some
practical so that you will understand subnetting with practicals.
So how to stop broadcast on router port go by default router stop broadcast?
Router do not forward broadcast. Okay. So router do not forward
broadcast. But there are lot of things. Okay. like uh you can do some broadcast
uh filtering and all strong control and all that is uh in the switch switching
topics we'll cover yeah router break the broadcast so as of now this is the only practical I expect
from all of you and there is no uh like uh please
try to do this lab as your what we call homework type of
I do not want to say homework looks like you guys are school kids because it's what we call the act
assignment lab assignment
I'm just sharing the screenshot in your notes because in notes already there is
a lab with this uh similar kind of lab but still if you want to do this lab you
can do that also
Okay. So let's uh now check what is
router power on self test router.
So this concept is called router bootup process. Just 10 minutes more and we are
ready to close the class also because we have done the topic and I'll take your
few questions also. Okay. So now you can see whenever you start the router so router first thing
is to check my hardware. Okay. So what is called post?
What is post? Post is power on self test and router check the hardware that all
my components are okay or not. Okay. Then after that the Rome there is
a memory in the router which is called Rome which L okay let me tell you the memories first.
Okay like in router also we have RAM roam. Okay. So RAM is like random access
memory. Rome is read only memory. Okay. So, so in these, so basically the room
has a very small software like in computers you have a BIOS and so the the
router has a bootstrap program bootstrap which search for operating system which
is called iOS. Okay. So my Cisco software is called if
you go to router and type a command here enable show version. Show version means
tell me the router model and version. So you can see here in the show version it is saying Cisco IOS software. iOS means
inter network operating system like in Microsoft Windows Linux. The same way
Cisco devices as Cisco IOS. Cisco IOS stand for Cisco internet networking
operating system. Internetworking operating system. So this is the model.
I think if you scroll a little bit so you can see from how long the router
is up. It's been like 1 hour 41 minutes the router is on. And uh so these are
the licenses and all. So you can see we have 3 GB ports. This is the board ID
which we call pro uh mother uh what we call serial number kind of. So this is your NV RAM. Whenever you save any
configuration that goes in this memory, nonvatile memory. Okay. So this is your
physical memory which is your RAM. This is where you store all your current
configuration. Whatever you are typing on the router that is called RAM. Okay.
So suppose when you say config t host name uh ABC. So this change is happening
in the RAM. Okay. So let me give an idea more. So tell me if I go to uh and write
any notepad file. Okay. Or maybe if I'm not uh if I'm typing a notepad file if I do
not save okay still you can type notepad if you do not turn off your notepad
sorry laptop. So uh the application will still run but that is running in your RAM and so right
now I'm teaching on packet tracer. I have not saved this file but still whatever window you see whatever lab is
going on that is taking my RAM right. So we need RAM for my current applications
and so the same way my router need RAM also for current uh means uh what we
call for the things like where current configurations.
So let's check again. So we check router check the hardware first and then router
check the then router load the bootstrap program.
Bootstrap means small software search for iOS. Now search for operating system
because even if you understand your computer if you are from already IT background. So your computer also do
some power on self test. Computer also has a computer also check hardware and
after that computer searches for Windows in the C drive right and that C drive is
available in the hard drive right then it will check any previous configuration
and all or you have saved it hibernate or your laptop or something like that and then it will load your computer the
same way. So router check hardware then router load the bootstrap bootstrap will
the ro load the bootstrap and search for iOS. So then bootstrap will search for
the iOS where is my operating system then operating system is available in
the flash memory. Okay then power on self test hardware check room will load
the bootstrap program and search for iOS. iOS is available in the flash
memory. So flash is like your memory card something or hard drive of router
where you store your software. Okay, because if you go to your router and type show flash,
show flash. So you can see this is the software your router software which is
under which memory? Show flash because this is where we store our
operating system. Like in Windows you store your windows in C drive right. So
the same way router store its information in the flash memory. Okay
guys. Okay.
Okay. Sorry, I don't understand.
Mhm. That's okay.
Yeah. Yeah. My phone camera is gone. Now I'm using my camera. Okay.
The Okay. So, let's repeat again. So, we will check the hardware first. Okay. We
will check the type in the chat. Stay active little bit.
So router will check the hardware with the post post. Okay. Okay. Uh let me
give you some energy. So whenever you give CN exam if this
question will come then what you will do? Tell me. So in which stage does does the router
load the Cisco IOS software image?
Now you got the point why it is important.
Okay. So this is why it is important. Okay. So some topics looks like you feel like it is not important why what to do
with Ramina. So it is to do with your exam if you have if you want to give
exam. Okay. So now coming back to the topic.
So power on self test check the hardware then Rome load the bootstrap room
program. Rome has a very small software which will search for the IOS which is
my main operating system. My Cisco router and switches operating system and
then iOS will be loaded. IOS from flash is loaded. We will load the operating
system in the RAM because when your Windows Okay, tell me
can you turn on your laptop without RAM only the power switch on you can do but
you can't use Windows without RAM why tell me what is the logic why RAM is
required because your Windows files copied in RAM
because RAM runs the all your current services. So when you see the clock,
when you see the time, when you see all the folders, icons, everything is in the RAM.
Then what is in the hard drive? Hard drive is permanent storage. We copy the
file from hard drive to RAM to run. RAM,
RAM means run, run the current things. Okay. So hardware check. Then we load
the operating system. We copy the iOS in the RAM from where flash because iOS is in
flash memory. iOS flash copy RAM. Okay, we will copy in the RAM. Okay, let me
show you. So when you click on the router and when you go to there is a physical
you zoom in there is a onoff switch here. You can see here on off. So when I
on off now just click off on and click on the CLI. So what do you see here?
What is happening here? Loading. So basically we are copying the files from
flash memory to RAM. Router boot up. This boot up is going
on. We are copying these files. My software is loading from flash to RAM.
And now it is loaded. I'm I'm asking people what is happening
like some students are it is rebooting
restart reboot when you switch on switch off it is reboot
right so I'm asking these so when you see these hash hash it means your files
is going from from flash to RAM Okay.
So, router is off now. And what can you see that guys? I have all lost my all
configuration. I have to set up the router again. Whatever I have done, whatever I have
taught you in the last 2 hours, 1 hour, that is all gone because I have not saved the
configuration. That configuration is in which memory? That is in the NV RAM, nonvatile RAM. So
let's go and quickly save. Okay. So let me what was the router name enable?
Let's say host name ABC. Let's go to the interface again. Let's configure interface GI000000.
IP address 192 161.00
no shutdown. Okay. We go to another interface. GIG001
IP address 192 168 200. So this is what we already done. That's
why I'm little fast now. Okay. And once you done everything now, then you have
to just say here, right? That's it. Write means copy my
running configuration which is called running is my RAM. Running is my RAM. I
want to copy my running configuration into startup configuration. So remember
running is your RAM. Startup is your NV RAM. So whenever router reloads or any
power fluctuation in your office, so then which which configuration will be
loaded startup. So whenever you do any changes but if you do not type right or
this command both has same meaning. Okay. So either short form is right. But the actual meaning of this command is
copy my running current configuration into startup. Okay. So suppose if you
change the router name host name XYZ okay and you reload the router. So what
will happen? the ABC will come not XYZ
because whenever you do any changes after every change you have to do write
because write command will save your configuration and even if you router reload or something power fluctuation
anything happens with the router router with the load with all IP address name
everything because we saved the configuration with the right command or right memory
Yes, I'm good. Ammon. Okay. So, you can see XYZ is there.
Enable. How to check IP address? Show IP route. Show IP interface brief. Can you
see everything is there in my device? We have not lost anything. Yes, because all
that configuration in my
uh so version. Okay. So you can see in the
version we have this NV RAM. This is actually my memory where I save my
configuration. This is your RAM and this is your flash memory.
Okay. So all these memories and this is the processor whatever processor ISR 4
331 this is the model. Okay. So remember in the post we check the hardware in the
Rome we load the bootstrap and search for iOS. Then iOS is copied from flash
to RAM. Then we check my previous configuration because your previous
configuration is called startup configuration. So whenever router load it will check your previous
configuration saved or not. So if it is saved it is it is going to load and if
it is not saved then it will just uh just load with the uh as a fresh router.
Okay. Or what we call the blank uh with no configuration router.
So boot process is completed as everything is loaded into NVAM. If you have the configuration, router will load
with the previous configuration. Okay. So now please see this chart why these
four memories are important. Okay. So it is a little blurry. Blur
image. Okay. So RAM is volatile. Volatile means whenever you restart
anything it will the data will go. Volatile means like it will be gone
removed. So why this RAM is important in the router running my software running
my configuration current configuration my routing table ARP table packet buffer
when the packet lot of packets will come I will store and hold that is called packet buffer. All these things are in
the RAM. If you do not have RAM you cannot run the router. Then we have roam
read only memory. So boot up instruction. Okay. Processor will give the instruction to read only memory kind
of. Okay. So basic diagnostic software. If you load if you if you corrupt your
main software, if you corrupt your main router or switch software, then we who is going to load that?
No, you cannot assign the broadcast IP to the computer or router with by default subnet mask. Okay. So now you
can see NV RAM. NV RAM is your startup configuration. When you save that is
called startup configuration and it is saved in the NV RAM and flash memory
where you store all your operating system and other files if you have. So
once power lost or disconnected volatile memory lost the data. Yes, volatile memory will delete the data but
nonvatile will save the data but Rome the main main is NV RAM because all your
configuration is in NV RAM. Okay. So RAM is like when your router is
off now and this is just a screenshot of very old router. So like uh the flash is
like a memory card or uh chip something NV RAM. Okay, this is the ROM. Okay. So
it is the internal hardware of Cisco. So let's check the questions. How
in which stage does the router load the software image?
So the answer is during the software initialization stage when we initialize
the software. Okay. So post because it is to check the hardware. Right? This is
wrong answer. Post post hardware check
post check the hardware that's why this is wrong while loading the configuration file. No because we load the
configuration file after loading the software. So this is also incorrect immediately after switching on the
router. No because when we turn on the router we check the post hardware then
it check the bootstrap then we find the iOS and then we copy the flash to RAM. I
hope you remember all the points. Okay. So how you are going to remember this? The question is that
if you feel like it is little difficult and all so it's simple just check one or
two times that's it because anyhow if you learn 20 times still you are going to forget this.
So the better way is to uh just make good notes. So whenever you get time
just keep revising the notes again and again.
Okay. So there is like our brain is also like RAM. Yeah. We do actually we humans we humans we do
not have NV RAM. We have NV RAM only for good and bad memories not for the study.
Then how where we save all the study what we do. So we save in the notes
right because our brain is like RAM and we are going to forget things very easily. Okay. And NV RAM we have very
small that is all for our friends family good memories bad memories right so then
where we are going to store everything. So it's better to keep notes.
That's what we call second brain because
just make your good notes. Remember consider your notes as your brain that
how you're going to make your notes properly how it is going to be.
So I'm just showing you lot of apps are there.
Okay. So this is my Apple nodes and you can see almost 1,000 notes and I have
built like this. Can you see areas personal, culture,
spiritual, strategy, YouTube, health, whatever content I get, I just add in
that thing. Okay. So some um if I don't like after like 3 4 months I just click
here and archive. Okay. So make good notes. Uh so this is not for study that
this is for uh for the things what you actually learn little bit. Okay. Like I
want to learn about uh like labs I want to learn about strategies. I just keep
those things in that folder. Okay. So I don't know but so I think there is a app
called up note. So this is for Windows
user you guys can use this up note
similar kind of stuff you can see you can make folders and whenever you you can install your mobile
so just uh I'm not if you want to save your study notes now for study notes the
best app is notion okay craft is also good but craft is
paid app after some time they will ask you to pay the amount so I'm teaching
I'm uh so that's why I'm okay to pay I'm okay to pay for this app because uh
I'm training a lot of students but as a personal I would recommend you to use notion okay so make your digital notes
very clear and crisp okay handwritten notes are also good but then you have to
take the screenshot and make PDFs that is also code. Okay. Uh so that's your choice that you want to read the
handwritten notes like this. Obviously we love handwritten. So you can just uh
make your notebook but uh these pictures you will not be able to add in your handwritten notes.
Photo. Okay. So we add a picture and all it will take lot of time to make all
these things properly handwritten or you can invest this Diwali in normal what we
call tablet
investment start with an ocean and if you feel like
you love more handwritten notes then somehow like go for any 10 15,000
tablet
So it start with Samsung I think S6 light I think 20 25,000.
So wait for this year next year invest in iPad once you get 30 40%
hike. Okay. So invest on yourself always.
Okay. So don't uh because this is the same uh I was also like the same guy. I
was always trying to download the things from torrent watching lot of content
from here and there. Then I actually come to know that I'm wasting a lot of time consuming content from anywhere
because that time like I was like watching CCNP from multiple videos a lot of things and all. Okay. Okay. So it is
like you are consuming lot of content but at the end of the day your brain is
not able to remember everything. Yes.
After even after right if you consider today's fourth class even after the batch completion after 6 months if I ask
you how what like what do you remember so most of you will not remember the whole batch. So the best way whenever
you learn try to make good notes try to write handwritten notes whatever okay
now because okay so I'm making your notes so still
these notes are one of the best notes in the market right now okay so I'm creating notes for you so whenever you
guys want you guys come back and read these notes check the labs so I'm doing my best from my side but I would suggest
Do do not try to copy paste all these notes in your handwritten at least
try to write very very important things like try to check okay what is post or
something okay so whenever I talk about any important thing try to note it down like today I told you design the
topology assign IP address verify connectivity so these things are little bit important and rest I don't feel like
you have to prepare your own nodes but when you learn from my node notes okay
when you learn from my videos my live classes then combinely make some good
notes also okay because in my notes I'm covering everything in detail
detail because when you go for interviews you cannot read each line by line right
so you need some shortcuts that okay if I want to remember OPF I want to
remember this basic configuration that you have to work on it. Okay. So in my
last batches I've shown people that I make I made
I made lot of handwritten notes.
Okay. See,
so I can show you now like this. I have to zoom camera.
Okay. Sorry. Sorry. So I have to So it's like I have enabled my blur
background so you can see. Okay. So you can use white pages and all. You can just uh
Okay. So use some markers and all. So whatever.
So this is the best way. Okay.
So any questions guys today?
Okay sir.
access lab. Uh which lab packet lab
like you have installed packet tracer or not?
Okay. Skills for all
you have login. No, no, no. The lab access you got from networkings that we will use later on.
ID Gmail usmail
password.
Uh
for all
try to do that. I think the Cisco credential it will work but if you do
not have Cisco credentials uh just use with Gmail ID. Okay.
Okay.
Last once we complete the batch or in the middle of the batch I have to convert all of them in PDF then I will
share with you. Okay. Just save in your mobile or somewhere
just open anytime anywhere read it. Okay sir. This is Yeah. Uh dropping
node.
Dropping node isolated.
Point of presence question
node in telecom node B is a different thing like uh Sometimes we call some
devices also node also.
IP then a host. Host means any device where we assign IP address. Now that is called host. Also we can say that node
also. Okay. Okay. So like router, switches, laptops,
printers, they all are host. In some in some ISP like Huawei if I talk about
Huawei or these kind of companies they call their devices node also sometimes
router okay in telecom devices we feel like node B e- node B if you heard about
in telecom so node is like any device where we give IP or related to
like max
Okay. Hello sir. Yeah. Yeah. Sir actually
I was sorry Mr. Wend the class because I was having problem. Yes Rafi. Any question?
You can unmute and ask. Okay. Okay.
Yes sir. I have one question. Yeah. Yeah. Sir, can we upgrade the router version?
Yes. So okay don't ask me how now
okay so it's a separate class we'll cover don't worry okay yes
one one more one more thing uh and the same thing firmware firmware
upgrade also can software firmware is same thing what is
okay tell me what is the difference between software and firmware
firmware like the I mean the hardware uh
at the time of manufacturing has been assigned this uh version like
firmware version like so basically the software which is embedded on the hardware now
correct yeah there is like some hard drive when we install in the hard drive those are called softwares but when the software
embedded inside the chip like Rome Rome Home is always called firmware and
because it is embedded on the hardware if you want you cannot so firmware is on
the chipset and software where we place or install in the in on top of it. So
that is the difference. So now what's your question? Can we upgrade the firmware as well as
the software? So you yes we can upgrade the firmware as well like in our laptops also we can upgrade
our boot what we call BIOS BIOS
yeah we can upgrade those things also but normally uh it's little hard in
Cisco devices I think for that we have to raise a ticket and all with Cisco and all but normally
uh I think it is not required because uh there is no problem with the BIOS of
Cisco devices because it's very plain and simple. So sir sometimes uh any error message
like like coming like this uh your right router should be upgrade or your router
should firmware should be upgrade. So no no auto messages will not come in Cisco devices. Cisco will not recommend
you to upgrade like the Windows. Yes. Okay.
Okay. It will not give you any updates. Okay. But uh yes what will happen if you
use some Cisco GUI software like Cisco DNA or something like that it will show
you okay this version is there and maybe uh it will show you okay this new
version is available kind of okay but router itself will not tell you
maybe Cisco software will tell you the version even the latest Cisco software will also not tell you to upgrade but it
will only display which version you are into right Okay.
Yes. Naven, you had a question. Yes, sir. Sir, I was wondering like you have asked
us to give the default gateway. Mhm. Default gateway. So, is it a next?
Default gateway is Yes. For computer it is the next hop.
So, sir, in between computer and router there was a switch also. So, why we haven't mentioned in the
switch? Because when we talk about hops, we always talk about IPs not MAC addresses. So on those on that switch,
we have not given any IP. Now okay. Yeah, that's why in that way and and sir, we haven't
configured switches also. So yes, we have not configured yet. But yes in further classes we are going to
configure them according to the requirement like if I want to configure VLANs or if I want to configure some
port security if I want to lot of things we will configure in the switches but right now it is not required once we
learn how to set a basic router then we will configure two routers, three routers, four routers. So when you will
get good understanding about a little bit how van networks work like how router works then we will come back to
the switching part. Okay, perfect. Thank you so much for answering. Okay.
Yes. Gorav, any question? So, one question Sasha just said. Yeah. Shas.
Uh, so uh let's suppose if we are conf configuring the Cisco order.
So like the other brands like micro so the configuration are same or it will
be different because of Cisco configurations all those commands. Okay. Okay. So tell me if you buy
Samsung TV and if you have LG TV the remote will work.
Absolutely. This is the only difference. But as now you tell me but as a normal guy you will
understand. Okay this is power off button. This is for channel change. So definitely if you know Cisco very well
you will be able to configure micro take or some other routers but by reading some documents.
Correct. Okay. Okay. So what I suggest if you guys have more than four years five years
experience I would recommend you with my CCNA start learning uh some other uh
like micro tech or juniper or something just read the book there no need to take
any live courses or because it's not available in the market easily and so it's better you just download the micro
tech book juniper book or huawei and read side by side okay
because when I'm teaching is routing. So maybe in in uh Juniper or maybe any
other vendor uh the concept are same just the commands are little different.
Okay. So if you have good number uh like if you have what we call little amount
of time extra time in learning then start learning Juniper start learning
Huawei just search on Google JNCIA book
download you will get the book. Okay, just check the Huawei. Huawei. So if you
guys have time just like CCNA is from Cisco and other companies have also CCNA
type of certification like Juniper has JNCA. Okay. Let me show you in my
screen. Okay. So just go and say JNCIA book.
Okay. So you will get somewhere just say JNCA book download. Okay. So this is the
Juniper book directly. You click here and you will get the link. Okay, let me give the link here.
But still
okay. So what exactly why this book is good? Not for freshers right now but yes
if you are uh like able to understand so the topics like you see contents so you
can see here uh some topics are related to us like if you start reading this
okay suppose uh if I show you
um
yeah you can see Here in in Cisco devices like in Juniper we have routing
engine and packet forwarding engine. In router we have two uh concepts. In Cisco
router also we have two things what we call data plane control plane. So routing engine will do the routing.
Packet forwarding engine will forward the packet. Very simple. If you go and further check you can see in the routers
Juniper routers we have Junos software but in Cisco we have which software? iOS
iOS software. Okay. Now if you check the routing engine so you can see the
Juniper has some series which is called M series router. M5, M10, M20, M40 was
use router M160 and it contains three 33 MHz processor 768 MB RAM and also 768 MB
of RAM and flash drive of around 6.4 GB. So this is just about their routing engine
2 routing engine 3. Okay, physical comparison and again this book is very
uh not very updated I think but still it is giving you all. So in Juniper book whenever they talk about Feb so that is
forwarding engine board when they talk about SSB this is system switching board. So as a fresher it is very
difficult to understand this type of language. So what we suggest people if you really want to learn juniper so
learn CCNA CCNP because it's uh CCNA is very easy to learn CCNP is obviously
when you are good at CCNA CCNP is also easy then after that you will be able to understand this type of language even
like u so I think uh uh once you complete the batch we will sometimes we will also
give you the chance to learn about juniper and all also okay So totally depends on the batch. So now you can see
if in juniper you can take the references also like in Cisco routers it is not possible but in juniper you can
say help. So
Juniper is like yeah awesome means best operating system of any network device
in the market. But yes uh Cisco latest uh big series what is ASR or IOS XR
which is like papa of Cisco. So the Cisco what we are learning that's IOS
which is for beginner level for because obviously CCNA CCNP is a beginner level but once you complete beginner level
then this is iOS XR which router they are very powerful router these are the
routers XR7 routers used by service providers. Okay. So basically Cisco has
three operating system. We are learning Cisco IOS. Then maybe if you go to the
data center you learn about Nexus. When you learn about service provider then iOS XR. But if you learn iOS again I
give example if you learn how to drive a simple car then it would be easy to drive the Audi and BMWs also. Right? So
that's the whole logic. Got the point? So this is the GNCA guide. Now suppose
you want to learn about micro micro right? Yes. Yes.
So just check their book PDF and all. I think uh these companies have open
documents because these companies are like just they are making guides for
their what we call for their clients not for the students because Juniper Micro
they do not have too much student certification or database.
books. These books are not for students. These books are for the experts. These
books are for the people who understand technical language very well. Right? So now you can see router OS, MUM academy
all these things. Their model numbers and all. So once you understand their models and all then you can talk about
uh yeah which micro yeah MTCNA their book is called MTCNA.
So MTCNA download right. So
yeah 320 pages. Okay. So when you learn about juniper when you learn about uh so
now today I told you show version command. Right. Now in juniper what command you have to enter?
Juniper show version brief. Right. So some commands are different. Again you can
see boot sequence. Whatever boot sequence we have done that is in the Cisco right but if you try to understand
Juniper so you can see this is the Juno software boot sequence their removal
media solid SSD drive so their SSD flash drive is the primary boot media in case
if the hard drive do not have the iOS then it will load from the hard drive.
Okay. So this is their first mode. So to today what we learn in Cisco router this
mode is called what? User mode. So in juniper this is called operational
mode. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So like we put a question mark we
see how many commands we can run. Again if you go to the Cisco router right so
question mark you can see all those things because both are on Linux. Both
are both softares are built on Linux. Next voice.
Yes. Okay. You can see show command. These are the show commands.
You can see question mark command. Right. If you put a question
mark even in the Cisco if you say show question mark it will show all the show
commands that what commands are available like show ip r question mark.
It will show you from R. I have two words what you are searching route. Okay. Okay. So sometimes we forot the
command. Suppose show ip you remember interface but it is not showing you that but after
you put question mark you can see okay there is a command brief. Okay. So this question mark and all these will help
you. Okay so now it is understandable right for the people right it's easy if
you why so I hope you understand. So when you learn CCNA and side by side if
you try to learn these JNC MTC okay
so see I'm here to explain you the technology right the devices are too
many in the market I cannot cover all devices right so for me five six months covering Cisco
also is a big challenge right because I'm covering in detail everything right
definitely it will work the other vendors like yeah yeah yeah yeah
so if you learn Cisco very well you will be able to understand others very well
also that's what I'm trying to say I'm not saying automatically you will understand obviously you have to put
little more time in juniper also in more time in MTCNA also So
because in in micro ticket is purely a GUI box not properly GUI but it's you
have to download this win box and you connect a cable okay then this is the diagram and all GI type
so you have to click on the DNS set the DNS.
So if you really want to practice I think in micro tick router now you guys
can try to check if it is available at 4 5,000 try to buy out
network device if you if you can afford like up to four to 5,000 just try to buy
and buy just sell it later on okay like I have lot of small devices also like TP
link this TPLink VPN router because when you start actually love the technology
now automatically you will buy these things. Okay,
right
there. Okay. So this device I have like two boxes of this one.
Okay. So these devices why these are useful because if you really want to become entrepreneur someday suppose okay
so I'm not saying you really want to but suppose sometimes you feel like you want
to open your own IT company you want to take projects in the real world then nobody will tell you okay TPLink is
teaching you TP CNA you will not go and learn TPLink CCNA right so sometimes
small devices are very important because the day you start your own company like
uh we are planning to start our own company NK TAC okay so that's networking tack so
so GIP this is GI based very affordable router
very good router if I want to give any client of mine a very good router at
this price this is the best router if you have two or three internet links
now so it will load balance traffic also. It has a firewall module also. Load balance traffic.
Repeater. What is repeater? Tell me. Repeater.
So we can want to buy 7,000 for repeater. Repeater I think for wireless right
normally use on a repeater actually is to regenerate the signal. Suppose one like there is a
building from one building to another they can go for AP. Yeah. So basically what is repeater?
Like after 100 m remember the first class. So after 100 m the device will
send weak signals then repeater will amplify the signal.
So basically what he's asking sometimes my LAN cable is getting lengthy then if
I put a device in between would it work like a repeater I think you should not
buy this device as a repeater it's better you buy uh some switch right
switch that is more affordable to buy okay 700 800 so that will work as a
repeater for you also correct okay because these devices you just want
to regenerate the signalisco
is not your only thing in the world right we are learning CCNA CN that's
okay but what I'm able to teach today it's not only because I know Cisco only
correct okay I can configure TPLink in 5 minutes tell me how to VPN everything I know
about TPLink dealing because we do some experiments okay and that is not because
I have a company now that's why we are doing even from the very early stage of my career I have started doing these
things so when you actually love the technology you will start looking
options how I'm going to learn more and more are you So I'm not saying you to follow me on
what I'm suggesting. I'm just sharing that when you actually love the technology you start making connecting
dots. Okay? Means sometimes you learn JNI, sometimes MT, CNA. Okay? So whatever you learn all those small small
things add in your resume and that become that makes you very different
from the market people. So when you are different from other vendor other guys
in the market then only companies are going to hire you but uh
CCNC
OPF standards same standards are same standard USB port standard in every
laptop, right? Yes, sir.
Kind of. Yes. Yes. China
for me because I have not configured too much but
yeah. Yes.
Yeah.
Sorry sir, sorry. Sorry sir, sorry. Sorry. Okay.
So guys, uh now time is over 12:30. Okay. So see you tomorrow. And I uh so
let me check tomorrow who is the winner for last uh that game. Okay.
Okay. So and also uh if anybody uh so tomorrow I'll cover static routing where
we connect two routers or three routers. And for next week also let's see uh who
made the best lab and then we'll uh make his resume and all. Okay.
So bye-bye. See you all tomorrow. Good night.

