ript


No. Okay. So, hi everyone. Uh what we are going to see today
and RC uh like CCNP and RC I take CCNP and RC and there are other trainers
also. Rohit I'll take your questions later on.
Oh,
Okay. So let's talk about uh the basic today. Okay. The basic means
uh we'll be discussing today one protocol that is ARP.
Okay. And we will be learning today packet flow also. Okay. I'm packet flow be. We will learn today packet flow also
ARP protocol. And if uh we get time we will cover like um uh ICMP ping uh what
we call trace route also. Okay. Okay. So good topic for today ARP ICMP ARP trace
route and packet flow.
Okay.
Okay. So, let's go deep dive today in packet flow guys.
Packet tracer.
Okay. Is it clear now? Screen is visible everyone. Okay. Great. Okay. So, what we
are going to learn today guys? So, we are going to learn ARP.
compliment. Okay. So yes,
so ARP. Okay. So what is ARP? ARP stands for
address resolution protocol. So let me uh write here
Rohit I know how I am going to teach. Don't worry.
Okay. Okay. So what is ARP? So address resolution protocol. So this
protocol is to resolve the MAC address. Yes. Class started just now. Okay. So
ARP is to resolve the MAC address
with the help of MAC IP address.
Okay. So what is ARP? So suppose you have computers.
Okay. So let's take an example
just now. Okay. So let's about check about two
devices or two computers.
Okay. So, consider these are two machines. Okay. So, how they are going to
communicate with each other? Okay. Let me take a better picture. It's too
blurry to blur. Yeah, this is better.
Okay. So what is ARP? So basically if the first computer will say if I want to
ping your machine. Okay. So when on this computer A computer B. So when you on
computer A and type here ping ping 10.1.15.
Okay. So what will happen? The computer will not send this ping packet. Okay. We
will not send this packet. Okay. because I do not have MAC address of computer B.
So what I'll create here whenever I don't have MAC address I will send a ARP
packet first. So I will instead of sending the ping packet I will first send ARP packet I will get the MAC
address of this machine and then after that once I get the MAC address then I will send the ping packet. Okay let's do
let's do this practically. Okay. So what I'll do here I'll take two computers one
okay and this is another computer I will connect them with a cable right so now
I'm going to give the IP address here suppose 192 168.1.1
okay GV and this is 2
clear very
Okay, only five guys have turned on their cameras. Rest people
not. Okay, so now I'll go to this computer A
and the second computer computer 1.2. Okay. So I've just given IP address and
now please focus here. I'll click on which mode? Simulation mode. Okay. Why
I'm clicking on simulation mode? Because I want to see the packets, right? So, click on simulation mode. And which
packet I want to check? Select none from here. And now just choose that I want to
see the ICMP and also I want to see the ARP packets. Okay. So now what I'll do here I will go
to the first computer. Go here. Go to command prompt and type
type here 192 1681.2. Okay. So what do you see here?
Okay. You can you can see there are two packets three packets created. But if
you open this packet what do you see here?
That this is ICMP packet. Can you see that? ICMP and we have IP address. Layer
three is which layer? Network layer. Yes, we have network layer information.
Do you see any layer 2 information here guys? Layer 2 information. Yes, Alfred. Do you
see MAC address here? Yes. Bibumar Vikas.
I will only say names who just on on their cameras because I don't see
others.
Yeah. So we do not see MAC address. So do you think which p which model we are
working on? Everyone on the world today is on which protocol TCP IP.
So TCP IP is what? TCP IP is a protocol. And what is protocol? a set of rules,
internet rules or networking rules, right? So TCP IP is basically a a rules,
a set of rules. So what is the rule on internet or any network that to
communicate from one computer to another computer, one computer to internet, if any machine
wants to connect with the other machines, we want their IP address and
we also need MAC address of my nearest device, okay? or my with my connected
device because without layer three and layer two I cannot forward my packet to
the application layers because above layers are called application layer
right so without layer 2 information I cannot forward my data okay so now you
can see inside this outbound PDU details which means what is going inside the packet so you can see this is the IP
packet what is this guys this is IP packet. So where I'm going 192 1681.2.
What is my computer IP? 192 1681.1. Okay. Protocol number one. This is
called protocol number one. So by the way, if you don't know the protocol number, ICMP has a protocol number one.
TCP has a protocol number six. And UDP has a protocol number 17.
Okay. So, ICMP is 1, TCP 6, UDP 17. Okay. So, now if you see here ICMP, TCP
and UDP. Okay. So, right now which packet I am forwarding? Ping packet and ping
protocol or ping uh tool. Ping is not a protocol. Ping is application which work
under which protocol? ICMP. So that's why when you see this ICMP
ICMP is working here right it is mentioned here this is that IP packet is
carrying what inside ICMP so ICMP is going inside which packet IP so the
biggest packet is big packet is IP and inside IP what packet I'm sending
MP yes clear everyone very good you guys
are amazing Amazing. Only the guys have turned on their
cameras. I will keep poking till the time you
will not turn on. Okay. So now if you see here if I scroll down
so you can see ICMP and right now there is some type 008.
Okay. This is called ICMP request. Okay. So whenever I send a packet which is
called ICMP echo request. So ping whenever we ping any device that
is called ping request that is called echo request and the echo request type
is 8 always. Okay. This is a code type. Okay.
Whenever computer so when you send echo request the computer is going to give you ICMP reply. The type is zero. So
request 8 number the request is 8 number reply is zero number.
Okay. Okay. We'll come back to the ICMP. But right now if you see here that I'm
sending ICMP packet. Okay. And there is another packet also created. If you
close here. So if you just open this green packet which is ARP packets. Can
you see that ARP? Okay. ARP. So what does it contain now?
Can you see we do not have? So ARP is a layer 2 package. Okay. Right now you can
see source IP 1.1 and destination IP is also 1.1. It is
like this is my IP only. Okay. I think that is to check my duplicate IDM. Okay.
So if I open the another ARP. Yeah. Now you can see this is the correct. So why the another ARP is there? Can you see
that that source IP is also 1.1 and destination also 1.1. So by default
sometimes computer can also send ARP to check is there any duplicate IP address
or not. Okay. So basically to check the duplicate IP address. Okay. So this is
also like sending ARP request without any reply. Okay. So that is to just check duplicate IP. normally okay focus
on this packet only where I'm sending packet to 1.1 to 1.2 Okay. So, forget about that uh ARP. So,
just focus on this one. Okay. So, we have this. So, we have the
source IP MAC address. This is the computer MAC address. And the MAC address is FF FFF. It means this is
broadcast packet because I don't know where I want to send a packet. But I only know that I
want to go from 1.1 to 1.2. 1.1.2 J I just know that I want to
forward my packet from 1.1 to 1.2. Okay. So how I'm going to forward that
packet. Okay. So it is there inside the ARP. So
you can see ARP. So my target MAC address I don't know where is my target
because I don't have MAC address, right? But I have target IP address only 1.2
because I'm sending a packet to 1.2 and get the MAC address. Okay. So for every if you want to send
any packet packet if I want to send any packet I
need layer 2 information and who will so I will not send this packet first. Okay
remember the I blue packet is ICMP and the green packet is ARP. So which packet
will go first? Because we do not have MAC address to send this ICMP. So what
I'll do first I will send a green packet. I will hold this ICMP packet
because I don't have the MAC address. So I will bring my MAC address of other device. Okay. So you can see if I click
here. So I send first green packet. This is called echo. Okay. So this is called
echo request. Okay. And now the computer is going to give me reply also with his MAC address.
So now ICMP got layer 2 information. Can you see that we got the MAC address guys? Now
we got the MAC address right and inside that already my device know that this IP
is 1.1 destination 1.2 okay and I already got my MAC addresses also. So
now the computer also have MAC address. So always remember ARP is to get the MAC
address to resolve the MAC address with the help of IP address.
It means get the MAC address with the help of IP so that you will be able to
forward the information and by the way this is I'm showing in
simulation mode but if you come back to realtime mode so what do you see in the computer you can see ping reply and also
in computer you can see ARP - a that we have learned the MAC address of 1.2 and
this is the MAC address of 1.2 So if you go to your real machine, okay,
whatever you are using right now in the Windows or Mac whatever
okay if I show you this. Okay, so this is my real computer. Okay,
not packet tracer. Okay, so if I say ARP - A, so you can see in real world also
my computer is storing lot of MAC address. Yeah, 1.1, 1.5, 1.7.
Okay. So this is how I store my device MAC addresses because if I send a packet
to 1.1, I will not send broadcast. Okay. So now if I show you simulation
mode again, again if I go and send a packet, if I send a ping packet again,
this time you do not see any ARP because I have already all the details and I got
to know all the details from the ARP table. Okay. So if I conclude the topic again,
okay, if I again repeat the topic, so please remember, please uh understand.
So whenever my computer go to another machine, whenever I ping
any computer address, what is the first thing computer check? Network.
First computer check is the computer is in my same network or not. So tell me if they are in same network. interview
question. Okay. Whenever you connected two two computers, what happens? Tell me.
Scenario- based question. If I I am taking your interview, I will ask you all. Okay. Hi Deepak. Hi Vive, Rajie,
Krishna, Shalendar, Vikas, everyone. So tell me these are two computers. Now
tell me step by step what will happen.
This is interview question of mostly all mostly companies. So first thing the
whenever we say here in the 1.1 ping 192 1681.2 what is the first thing
computer will see computer will check the network ID.
Network ID. So tell me if they are in same network or different. Now tell me are they in same network or different?
They are in same network. Yes. Yes. So now tell me if they are in same network
now computer will check what ARP table.
So if ARP has MAC address. Yes. And if ARP table do not have MAC address then
what will happen? If we do not have MAC address, what we will send here? Broadcast.
And if we do have the MAC address, if we have MAC address in the ARP table, then
we will do what? Uniccast.
Yeah, uniccast means we will send ICMP packet, right? Or we will not hold, we
will not send ARP packet. Okay. So when we check the network ID, we check our
ARP table. If we have the MAC address, if we have the MAC address, then we will
send the packet directly or we can say like uh we will not send ARP. Instead,
we will directly send what ICMP. If we have the MAC address, we will not
send ARP. We will send direct ICMP. And if you do not have the MAC address, we
will send a ARP broadcast packet. So what will happen when I send ARP
broadcast packet? What ARP brings for me? MAC address.
What if you don't know the destination IP? Man, you then how you will know who is your destination?
Use your common sense. Do you go to google.com without typing google.com in your computer?
Or you have just okay Google at your home still that is sending a request man.
Shut up Google my Google got active.
Just hold on. 52.
I have to say shut up every time to her.
This is the only lady I can scold. Okay.
Sorry, I don't understand. Okay. So, let's repeat again. So, 192
1681.1 192 1681.2 too Ali. Okay. So the first thing I send if
I have the ARP packet. Let's repeat again guys because I know this is a little tricky topic. I will repeat it
for you. Okay. So when all my machines have the ARP entry they will not send
broadcast. Okay. So right now these are two computers only. Let me show you if I
take a example by connecting multiple devices. Okay, instead of two computers,
if I take some like four computers, then you will understand better that ARP is a
broadcast packet or not. Okay.
Okay. So this is like 1.5 okay 1.6
1.7 okay 1.8 eight. Okay. So, you will
understand ARP better here. But yes, ARP is between two computers also. ARP is
between four computers also. ARP is between two routers also. Okay. When
routers are connected with each other, they also send ARP with each other also.
Means every network device need MAC address of other machine. Okay.
Okay. Okay. So now what I'll do here again if I go to simulation mode. Okay. Remember to on ARP and ICMP, right? And
now like uh if I go to 1.5
and first I'll show you. Okay. So just uh
so first I will show you ARP - A. There is no AR entry. We do not have any MAC
address. Okay. And now if I go to simulation mode and type any IP address
of any computer. Okay. Like if I want to go to 192 168.7.
So what is the first thing when I enter? So when I enter this so computer check
network ID and I got to know this is in my network. So then what will happen? If
this is in my network I will send ARP packet to 1.7. I will send ARP packet to
1.7. So two packets are generated here. And if you open this, this is ARP broadcast packet and this is ICMP.
So now if so which two packets are created if you do not have MAC address
ICMP and ARP because ICMP is created because you only I only type the ping command
and this is ARP which is generated because I do not have MAC address.
Why ARP is generated? Because we do not have MAC address. So if I do not have MAC address, I generate ARP. When I send
this broadcast packet to switch, now tell me what switch will do. Switch will forward to all computers or not.
Broadcast packet will be forwarded to all machines. Let's see if I forward this packet.
So the switch is going to broadcast to everyone and asking who is 1.7, who is
1.7. So 1.6 and 1.8 8 is saying I am not 1.8. Why they are saying no? Because in
the packet header the IP address is 1.7 and these machines are 1.6. So it is a
wrong destination. That's why they are saying we cannot accept this packet. But
1.7 accepted the packet. There is no no there is no cross on that. Yes. So now
if I click on 1.7 you can see it has also created the outbound. Inbound means
what I received. So you can see in the inbound details MAC address is 000
because computer do not have the MAC address. Now he's going to reply his MAC
address. You can see source and destination. So now this computer is
going to forward the packet back to switch and switch is going to forward back to 1.5.
Okay. And this is how I got my first like uh ARP MAC address. And now I will
send my which packet ARP work is done. Yes, ARP
ARP work is done. Now ICMP is going to come in the picture. So ICMP packet will
go now. ICMP will go now. ICMP has
already MAC address. Correct MAC address. Right? And switch also know because switch also has a table because
how switch know that I want to do uniccast because switch also has a MAC address table. He already know that I
want to forward this packet to E 0 E08F
something and this 0080
something is there on the FA04 port something right? So this is like I
want to forward to this packet. Okay. Okay. So you can see I forwarded to Okay. So FA3 J sorry. Yeah. FA03 is this
MAC address. So I forwarded to 1.7. This is ICMP. Which packet? Aqua request. And
now I'll be going to get the Aqua reply. ICMP reply. So I got my first packet.
And this is I got my first reply. So this all thing happens at the back
end. These all things happens at the back at the back end that first whenever
you go to any machine the first computer check the MAC address in the ARP table
and if you do not have MAC address we will first send ARP packet to the switch
will broadcast that packet ask every computer who is 1.7 then 17 computer
will reply with his MAC address and then we store the MAC address in the computer
and then we will forward the ICMP. So if I come back to my realtime mode and if I
run here ARP - A. So you can see I got the MAC address of 1.7.
So now tell me if I again go to 1.7. If I again go to 1.7 so do you think I will
create ARP packet now? If I already have MAC address, so do you
think I will send ARP or shall I will send directly ICMP?
Let's
Okay. So Paul
Which packet will go now? ARP or ICMP.
Okay. So there is one guy only who is saying ARP. Three guys, four guys, five
guys, six. Now ARP is correct actually.
Now let's see your confidence now. 9 10 guys clicked on ARP.
Okay. Okay.
See your results. So the public opinion is ICMP. ICMP is
correct answer. You have won one CR.
One CR happiness. Yeah. Happiness.
Okay. So, the correct answer
Okay. So that which packet will go first if I already have MAC address of this machine
which packet I will send first ARP or ICMP. So the right answer is if I ping
here this is a packet. If I open this packet this packet is which packet now?
ICMP right? So this is ICMP packet that I'm
forwarding ICMP because I already have MAC address. That's why ARP I I will
only send when I don't have the MAC address. Okay.
So again if I go here but this time if I do not ping 1.7 instead I ping 1.8.
So what do you think? When I ping 1.8 8 I will send ICMP directly or ARP first.
So now you can see when I ping 1.8 uh now two packets are generated and this
is this is your ARP packet. It means I will first send ARP packet. If you have
100 machines for computer is going to first get all 100 machines in the ARP.
Okay. Then it will not forward uh what we call.
So it is very simple. We need ARP.
We need ARP because I need MAC address. When we have MAC address then I can easily go to any machine. Clear
everyone? Okay. One R to ICMP because the first
packet is for 1.7 and second packet for 1.8. But in the 1.8 I need ARP. But in 1.7 I
don't need ARP because I already have that MAC address in the table. So now if you ping 1.7 or
1.8 I will not send ARP because I have already their MAC address.
So if cable disconnected then hopefully it will again regenerate packet. Yes Shamik if you delete the cable.
Okay. So if you delete the cable or something what you are trying to say for 1.5 okay if you delete that table cable
so you can see ARP entries are deleted automatically okay because if you remove any when they
are out of network they will delete AR
but once they come back they need to relearn the entries again.
Okay. So they need to relearn the entries again.
Okay. So this is all about uh the simple two machines or four machines. So what
if
Okay. What if now we have a router, two routers?
Okay. So this time we got a router and uh now we will understand the packet
flow from this network to this network. Okay. So we will give IP address.
Suppose uh here I'm going to give 192 161.1. Okay. Because these are in 192 network.
So the routers are in maybe 200.1.1 200.1.1.2.
So this side you can take any network like 5.1 and these servers are like 5.2
5.3. Okay. Yeah.
Okay. So let's configure this lab. I'm sure this is very simple lab. we will be able to do this as uh you can do this
with static routing. Okay. So you go to the first router.
I'm not going to write any configuration for this basic lab. I'm expecting that
you should be able to configure this. Okay. Host name. So let's call this is
R1 and this is R2. Router 2. Okay. Host name R1. Interface GIG
000 IP address 19261.1.1
interface GI00001 IP address 200.1.1
okay so we have given that and uh we go to another router two and type here no
enable config t host name R2 to interface GIG 000 IP address.
Okay. So, we configured IP addresses and now I want 15 computer.
Uh like obviously you remember whenever we connect routers we need a gateway. We need to give a gateway. So do you think
gateway is important? Why gateway is important to go to
another network? Right? Why gateway is important? So that we can talk to
another network. Right? Because router is a device which is used to connect
different network. So now if you I show you
AR table. So there is no AR entry. Okay. And I will also add a static route
because without static route you will not be able to ping. So I will add a
static router in router one for which network for this 5.0 network. So this
network I need to tell router 1. Okay. How? By typing IP route network ID 5.0
subnet mask and then 192
uh this uh 5.025. 0 25525 0 and uh who is the
next stop how how I'm going from R1 to this network
how I'm telling that this is R2 with the help of 200.1.2 to this is next hop okay
so I have to give my next hop 200.1.1.2
right and if I go to router 2 router 2 also have to know about this network which is 1.0 zero right so because
router only know directly connected so the rest of the network we have to add
in their routing table and the next stop is 200 or so to I'm
sure most of you know this right so now we added a static route and if I
show you the simulation mode okay ARP ICMP is activated
okay so now if I if I try to go in a different network which is 5.2.
So what will happen? First I will check what my network. So now tell me network
is in same network or different. So when I ping from 1.5
to 1 this 192 5685.2 so the first thing computer will check
its network ID. So if your network ID is same
then you already know what happens. But if network ID is not same what will happen? I will send I will I will check
my gateway MAC address because I cannot get the MAC address of 5.2 which is in
different network. I will check my gateway MAC address in my ARP table.
Gateway means router MAC address in my ARP table. So right now you know in this
computer okay we do not have any ARP okay so to
go to a different network if I want to go to a different network I need my
gateway MAC address. So it means I will first generate ICMP and I will send ARP
I will hold the ICMP packet. I will send ARP packet to my gateway. So I will send
ARP packet to my switch. Switch will broadcast and say send to router one. So
everyone is saying I'm not gateway but router accept that he is the gateway. Now router one will share his MAC
address to the computer. Now computer got to know the MAC
address. So when we got the MAC address. Okay. So now after that I will send ICMP
packet. Now you can see I got all the details. I know where to forward the
packet 5.2. I know where is my source IP 1.5. Okay.
So if you just scroll down so you can see my MAC address. This is my source
MAC which is my computer MAC and my destination MAC is 0090 something which
is basically my router IP because I cannot have 5.2 two MAC address because
that is in different network. So when you go to different networks, you store the MAC address of your gateways.
You never store MAC address of different networks. Clear everyone? Okay. You just
store your LAN network devices MAC address. Not do you store Google server
MAC address in in AR table? No, you will only store if you see your laptop also,
you will see some IP addresses like 1.1 which is my router IP, some maybe my
mobile or my another devices. Okay, so these are my MAC addresses and they are
all dynamic learn. Dynamic means they are learned dynamically. Okay, to say learn computer
automatically my computer has learned the MAC address. Okay. So now if I got
the MAC address now I will forward my packet to 5.2. So I forward to switch. Switch will
forward to router and router will
forward the packet further. Uh you can see here there is green packet also forward to router two. Router two will
send again the packet back to R1. So what is going on? Why my packet got
back? because that is like they are also learning ARP can you see that
right so so it means they are learning ARP and that's why sometimes your packet
gets dropped sometimes my first packet gets dropped right in ICMP or something so basically
my network or my network devices are learning MAC address of each other so
sometimes one or two packets get dropped but don't worry after that there will be a smooth process
You forward the packet to switch. Switch will forward to router one. Router will forward to router two. Router two will
forward to switch one. Switch will forward to servers and ask who is 5.2.
5.2 reply me and send the packet back to me. And this is how you get like one or two
packet drop again. I told you. Okay. So I'm sure the third packet will come back
properly. And whenever you get the packet properly, you see the ICMP ping reply.
So the first one or two packets get dropped because at that time computers or servers are trying to learn the MAC
address of each other.
Okay. So now we have to understand now this is not packet flow. This is from where we will start packet flow.
Please.
Okay, let's take a 5 minutes break. Okay, come back in 5 minutes.
Okay. So now if I again try to go to this 5.2. Okay. Right now if you see ARP
- A I learn the MAC address of my gateway not 5.2 because 5.2 two is in
different network I will I will never learn the MAC address of 5.2 or a
different network. So whenever I go to different network I will only I need
only my gateway MAC address. Okay. Whenever I communicate with in my
network then I need MAC address of all computers. When I contact a different
network then I only need my gateway MAC address. Clear everyone?
Yes. Okay. So now,
so now interview question. What happens? Sometimes the interviewer is going to ask you, okay, tell me when I send a
packet from 1.5 to 5.2, what is going to be inside this packet?
So tell me what will what you will have in the packet? What will be source IP?
What will be destination IP? What will be the MAC address? What will be the destination MAC address? Okay. Let's
write here. Okay. So, what I'll do here?
Okay. So, when I go from 1.5 to 5.2. Okay. If I show you
simulation mode. Okay. So, if I ping the packet again, okay, forget about ARP. We
have learned the MAC address. Everything happened. Okay. But when we send
uh Okay, let's cover ARP for again. ARP - D to delete the ARP table. Okay. To
delete the MAC addresses, ARP - D. And you can see I do not have ARP entry. So
when you do not have ARP entry and when you send the packet for the first time
to a different computer in a different network. So what will happen?
You will send which packet first? ARP or ICMP.
ARP. Yeah. So you will send ARP and you will send ARP to where? To 5.2
or to gateway. My question to all of you. So when for
the first time your computer send a packet to 5.2. So you're you will send which packet
first ARP and in the ARP you will send ARP to which computer which IP 1.1 or
5.2 because I cannot send ARP to my 5.2
because that is in different network. You cannot send ARP broadcast traffic
because router kill broadcast packets. router kill broadcast packets. So that's
why you will not be able to send ARP packet to 5.2. Then who is responsible
for transferring the data from one network to another router? So it means
I'm going to have in the first packet if I open there the
source IP will be SIP mean source IP 192
168.5 destination IP will be where you are going
I'm going to 192 1685.2 two source MAC address of which machine 1.5.
So whatever's MAC address of this machine
okay you can just go to machine and check uh what we call MAC address of
this machine right by typing IP config something or you can easily get from
here when I send ARP you can see ICMP so I will not I do not
have layer 2 information that's why I will first send this ARP
uh so I will send ARP I will get the MAC address from 192 16.1.1 and once I get
the MAC address I will now send ICMP with this MAC address so what is the MAC
address here 0000 C triple0 C CF something okay triple 0 C
CF uh 50 4 A A B and and in the destination MAC
what we will have my gateway MAC address 0090. So this is the MAC address of my
router port. Okay. So you can you see this 009 C
remember that 7401. So this MAC address is of my router but
router has multiple cables. Can you see GIG0000 GI00001?
So if I go to router and say show interface GIG 0000.
So the MAC address is 00907401.
So GI0000 has this MAC address and there is another
MAC address 01 something and this has
S7402 different MAC address. GI 01
001 has 7402. I can write it here somewhere.
I hope you understand that a 0090 is this
and 7402 is this. GI0 and GI 01 has this MAC address. So
router has two MAC addresses. So, but I'll be sending the packet to which interface 7401
or 742. Type in the chat 01 or 02.
Your computer is going to send a packet to 7401 or 7402.
So, who is in my network? 192 1681.1. This interface, this IP is
on G0000. So I'm going to have in the packet I'm
going to have the 7401. Can you see that 7401?
Okay. So it means my MAC address is going to be in the destination MAC
address. I'm going to put here this 7401.
Yeah, this is my packet for the first time. So when I send a packet
further to router one. So when I forward my packet further to router one, what
will happen? Now tell me when I forward a packet to router one, what will be the
packets here on router one? So tell me source IP will be 1.5 or 1.1.
Yes, Shiram, I can see your chat. me
because there are a lot of messages.
Okay. Okay. Okay. So computer whenever I forward my packet from the computer that
time my source IP and destination IP will never change and source MAC will be
computer MAC destination MAC will be router MAC but when I forward the packet
to router now router one received the packet okay so you can see
right so you can see in the inbound layer when I received the packet I'm
getting the packet from my computer MAC address and this is my GI0000
interface which is my GIG00 MAC address.
Can you see that guys? 00C is sending data from 7401
and now 7401 data is going to this interface which is 7402.
Can you see that in layers? In layers means when I received my packet that is
in layer when my packet are going inside my router that is in layer and when I'll
be sending the packet out from this router that is outer layer and whenever
I send my packet further I will be sending the packet to can you read this
009 C7402 and then I'll send the packet to E801
something it means Means what is happening? If you understand the first step
computer send packet to router. This is my first step. Then second step router
process the packet from this interface to this interface. This is step two.
Yes. Because how router will check that I want to forward my packet on 001 by
looking at routing table and see okay you want to go to 5.2. 2 5.2 is in
200.1.1.2 direction right and this 200.1.2 is is
connected to my 001 interface how he got to know that he has to shift the traffic
from 0000 to 001 because router will come to router and say router will check
routing table like show ip route 19265.2 2 and now I want to go to this network
to go to this network I have to contact 200.1.1.2 and router will again check where is
200.1.2 router will again check 200.1.2 two.
Okay. And then we will come to know okay this is directly connected to 0001.
Amazing this is how you are going to troubleshoot also in life like whenever
you got want to know where is my packet going. Okay. So now can you see if I want to go to 5.2 routing table is
telling me that I have static entry static route that you have to forward the traffic to 200.1.2.
Then I check where is 200.1.2. So the router said 200.1.2 is connected to your
001 interface. It means router is going to shift my traffic from 0000 to001
and router then will forward the packet to which we will forward the packet to 200.1.1.2.
So so it means I'm going to forward now third step. I will forward packet from
this interface to the router interface. This is my third step
where I will use my 0017402 MAC address and if I have the MAC
address of router 2 then it is fine else I will also send ARP between router. But
if you go to a router and check ARP so can you see that 200.1.2 two I have
already MAC address E801 we already have that 200.212 two MAC
address. Yes or no? How we have already? Because we ping ping the packet already,
right? So, right, I already know the MAC address of
this device and that MAC address is stored in the table.
So, this is my step three. First step again you send a packet from computer
MAC address to router MAC address. The second step router is going to forward
from the source MAC address from this MAC address 7401 to 7402
right means 0000 to 001 and then forward packet and forward packet from 742 to
E801. So when I forward packet to E801
now router will check the server computer 5.2 two MAC address. Okay. And
if we do not have MAC address, we will send again ARP. But if you check here, do we have 5.2?
Yes, we do have 5.2 machine MAC address also in the router. I will forward the
packet from now E801 to this MAC address
which is uh 0001 first.
Okay. which is this E802 means traffic will shift from E801
to E802. This is my which step
mean router will forward the traffic from E801 to A802. This is your fourth
step. Now from E802 you are going to forward the traffic to
server and the server MAC address is there inside your router already which
is uh triple01 something. Okay. So this
is the MAC address of this machine. Okay. And this is going to be your last
uh packet delivery packet. Okay. only at the time of delivery you will have to
change the MAC address for five times but do you think do you in the whole
process your source IP and destination IP will change
okay let's take an example if I'm I am in Chundigard okay Delhi okay city and I
send a corer to you in Bangalore so when I send a corer to you my home address
and your home address will change on the corer.
No, but it will your corer will go from
Delhi to Mumbai to Pune to Hyderabad and then go to
Bangalore. Right? So means during the corer the corer offices will change.
It's like your MAC address. But the corer from source to destination will
never change. The same way whenever you send a corer in take an example of your
packet the source IP and the destination IP will never change
but MAC address will change every time. People get confused in normal computer
uh like sir but we can change IP address on computer but we can't change the MAC
address. Remember I'm talking about when the data is moving. Don't get confused when the
data is moving when you are listening to music when you are taking classes on
Zoom when you are doing anything on internet. So your source IP and the
server IP address will never change but during the process your computer packet
will go to your router your home broadband router then home broadband router to ISP router ISP router to
Google whatever right. So right now just it is a very small network and you can
see I change my MAC address from computer to router, router to router,
router to another router, router to interface to another interface, then router to second interface to the server
MAC address.
So you have all the data right now with you. Okay. Tell me.
Okay. I hope you can read here all the MAC addresses. This is 7401. This MAC address.
These type of questions can come in exam also. Okay. Just you have to choose that uh
how your traffic is going. Something like that.
You can easily get IP config /all also.
H.
So if I open my packet. Okay. So people can give you this type
of scenario and they can ask you packet from anywhere. Okay. Means if the packet
is here tell me what will be the source and destination MAC.
So remember source and destination IP will never change. But if packet is here
the source MAC address will be GI0000 MAC address and destination MAC address
will be this. Clear? If your packet is between here.
Okay. Tell me at that time what will be the source MAC address that is 7402 and the destination will be this interface
MAC address E801. When packet is here at that time source
MAC address is E801 and destination will be E802.
When the packet is here the source MAC address will be E802 and the destination
MAC address will be server MAC address. Clear everyone? Only different is not
using gateway and R2 while
yeah IP will never change.
Okay. So if I can see here packet flow
No switch MAC address will not come in picture because it's a layer 2 device. You are sending ICMP which is layer 3
packet.
MAC address stored in ARP table.
It's not my problem. I'm giving my 100%.
I can only help like I can show the path but you have to
go your own right.
Yeah, switch has the MAC address. Uh Rohit please understand. So switch is just to store the MAC addresses of that.
Uh okay that whenever you travel anything switch is like security guards understand okay like whenever any
traffic goes switch write down the MAC address like the building uh security
guard he will write take your signatures right if you go this computer will go he will write if you 17 whenever we forward
packet from any computer switch is going to write write the MAC address so why
because switch say that I do not want to send a broadcast packet every time if I
know the MAC address I can only forward the packet to the packet to the direct
that machine means if I have MAC address of 1.5 and 1.6 means you do you can
directly ping 1.6 six without doing broadcast
right so that's the thing
okay so uh the switch MAC address means that if switch know the MAC address I
will not do broadcast
okay so any questions guys you can ask Okay.
Yes. Uh what I'm trying to say here is uh
when the packet is uh uh sending it just 1.5 is sending a packet to the 5.2 to uh
first the traffic will go to the router one you said right but the when the traffic is coming back the through the
packet is passing through the switch only my concern my question here is switch MAC table will maintain the MAC
address of the G 0000 by Z for the future purpose
yes yes switch will maintain 00 MAC address also correct so when the second time the packet is
come the switch will identify the MAC address based upon this MAC table then automatically forward the traffic to
towards the R1. Am I correct? Yes. Yes. Yes. So that's what so the same see consider router is also
like computer. Yeah. Okay. So if switch understand the computer MAC address the same way this
router MAC address will be stored in the switch MAC address table. Yeah. Previously in one of my told me
the switch will not maintain the router MAC address. Just will pause the traffic. How it will be?
No no MAC address. So if I say ping 5.2 two and if you go
and say here show MAC address so you can see we have learned the MAC address of
GI017401 which is router MAC address. Can you see that?
Okay. Okay. Okay. Router is switch is going to store the MAC address of router connected
interface only not 7402 because 7402 is not connected to me. I am connected to
7401. Switch will store all IP addresses of their network.
The switch is in this network, right? Switch is connected to this network. So whether it is a router MAC address,
whether it is a server, computer, printer, any device, I'm going to store their MAC address.
Whenever I send a packet, I store MAC address. Whenever I send a packet, I get
a reply. So means any traffic go and come back from this switch I'm going to
write down all the MAC addresses in the MAC address table. So that switch do not have to forward the broadcast every
time. Yes, that was my concern whether the router MAC address will be stored in the
switch or not. You said then how switch will identify how where to forward the traffic when you say I want to go to google.com.
Yeah. Yeah. That's what my question actually that's what you are saying. So the computer so first of all it's
mandatory for us to have the gateway MAC address in the computer table. Why? So
that computer do not have to send a broadcast packet. When I say I want to go to Google, Facebook or any server I
will just check my ARP table. I will forward my traffic to gateway. So when I
forward my traffic to switch. So switch will see okay I want to go to gateway.
What is gateway interface? He will check the MAC address because we from where we got the MAC address from computer.
Computer say I want to go to 0090 switch. So switch will say okay 00980 is
on GI01. Yes. Then traffic go to router one. Router
one. Then check the routing table 5.2. It is connected to 200.1.2. Then 200.1.2 is connected to GI00001.
And this 001 also you can see here in the ARP table 200.12. This is the MAC address. We got
the MAC address from here. We forward the traffic from 7402 to E801.
Right. Yeah. Then we got the packet E801. It will shift the traffic by looking the 5.2 in
this router because this router will also check I want to go to 5.2.
Okay. Okay. This is directly connected to 0001 and where 0001 is 001 now we
have multiple MAC address but I want to know the MAC address because where I'm going 5.2 5.2 2 is 001 EB9. So I will
forward the traffic to EB9. And the same happens when the packet
comes back also means all switches are going to store all the traffic what is
passing through. Okay. And the same way it will come from this side. Uh so the if the PC 1.5 if you are
trying to accessing a different network the PC will identify the uh different network based upon his subnet mask.
Right? Yes. Subet mask and the network ID. Network ID. This is correct.
Understanding? Yes. Yes. When you say ping 192 1685.2, we will check our IP address. We will
check the destination address. We will do some math and got to know. Okay. This
is not in my network. Yes. Yes. Okay. That is called ending process basically.
Clarifying my subject. Sorry to ask. Uh-huh. No worries. No worries. Ask.
Ask. Any other questions guys?
Collision domain multi we'll discuss collision domain. Collision domain is nothing. It means how many devices at
the same time can talk. So now tell me if you if you are on this laptop I am on
this laptop. Rohit is on this laptop and Suil on this laptop. Can we all go to
internet at same time? Can we access google.com if my internet
if we have internet access? Can we all go to google.com from our office laptop?
Yes or no? Yes. Yes sir. Yes. And can these servers can also
forward traffic to any of their clients at the same time? Yes sir. Yes.
Right. So now what is collision domain? Collision means like how many maximum
number of people can talk. So now in this m in whenever you use the switches
we always count the switch port numbers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and router ports also 8
9 this is going to be 9 and if you counted this one you do not have to count the opposite side. So right now if
you if you see the collision domain of this network is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. So
what is the collision domain size is there? 9. Okay. Now if I go to this
so the collision domain of this network is how many users can talk at the same
time? Like obviously this is one cable. So both the devices means this is one collision one uh like collision. And if
you see about a four switches together, four all four devices can talk at the same time. So collision domain is
nothing how many users can talk at the same time. That's called collision domain.
Okay. So suppose there is a picture here. Just hold on.
And this is going to be tool along.
Okay. If you see this picture, how many devices at the same time can talk?
1 2 3 4 5 What is the collision domain
of this? just count the switch port numbers that
is your collision. Okay. So, but in a case of hub suppose there
is a very old device hub because uh in a hub like only one device at a time can
talk. Okay. So for example the older days very old days when you
your date of birth year basically at that time there was hub and bridges and
that time like whenever you have computers they cannot send data simultaneously if they send data at the
same time the collision will happen means the data will not be able to travel that's called collision domain.
So whenever you have a device which is very old hub which you cannot able to get in the market now. So in that type
of collision domains there was issue and that's the reason to connect multiple
hubs and to do uh uh reduce the collisions we used to have the bridges
but nowadays bridge is also replaced by switches. So bridge is nothing bridge is like switch only because bridge learn
MAC address and switch also learn MAC address. That's why hub is now replaced
and bridge also replaced by one single product that is
switch. Okay. So bridge MAC address learn MAC
address but less ports. Hub has a ports but no MAC address learning. So switch
has good number of ports also learn MAC address. That's why it is like now
replaced by the
Okay, let's see one more picture guys. If you see here, how many collision
domains are there? Can you see switch po count the switch
ports? 1 2 3 and there is a hub. So hub is all considered one only. We will not
count the hub ports because if both user can forward data it
can create collision. So that's why this is one collision domain area. Oh this
area is one. So switch ports are 11 one.
And what is broadcast domain of this one or two? If you send a packet from this machine
to this machine, the packet will go to all the devices or not.
Yes, because all switches and hubs will forward the data. Okay, there is no
router here. So, we will we have one broadcast uh domain
in this case. Tell me what is broadcast domain in this case?
broadcast. So when you send broadcast it will go till here right
and if you send broadcast there is another network. So how many broadcast networks one and
two two because there are two broadcast domains these are called broadcast
domains and when it comes to collision domain if somebody ask you collision domain means
how many users can talk at the same time. So tell me what is the collision here? 1 2 3 4 5 6. How many collision
means? Six. But if I replace the switches with hub,
if I change the switches to hub, then what will be the collision here? collision domain
two two because and this is going to be if I change the
switches to hover then it will be two collision domain
If you remove the cable automatically it will be deleted instantly. Okay.
If you if you shut down the router or something. So right now you can see it's not there after by default after 5
minutes ARP entry gets clear from the switch table. But if you ping any device
again, the switch will learn the MAC address again. Just hold on.
52.
Okay. I think why it is okay. Show MAC address table.
Sorry. Okay. So you can see MAC address table is there dynamically. Okay. And if
I just shut down the computer from here, there is a power off button and uh
you can see the MAC address is gone from the ARP table. Okay. Right. Yes. So this is a troubleshooting step.
Right. This is a good way to understand also sometimes what happens. Okay. So
when user say that I'm not able to connect. Okay. So what you do this is a
troubleshooting step. Suppose a user in in your building or in a different building say suppose this is Dilli
office. So Dilli office user say that my internet is not working. Can you please
check? So you will ask him okay tell me go to your laptop. Okay. So you will
power on obviously. Okay. And uh so right now just how you identify the
port number or something and all whatever. Okay. So suppose
this is 1.5. So you can ask user what is your IP address. If is not techy guy,
you can ask him okay can you please give uh just go to this command prompt and
type here cmd and type here in the command prompt IP config
IP config something and you can get the IP address like this. Okay. Or nowadays
you can go to the task manager. Okay. Go to uh what we call uh
performance.
Okay. Nowadays it's super easy in Windows. You just ask him to open the task manager. Go to the performance
section. This one. Can you click on the second icon and click on the Ethernet or
what do you see? Okay. Where you see the bars on Ethernet. Okay. Okay. So you
scroll down and you can see the IP address over here also when you're troubleshooting the windows. Can you see
that? Okay. You need to find how to make easy for a user who is non techy
right. So suppose a manager who is handling a sales team or marketing. So
maybe he's not able to understand these techy things. Okay, we are techy guys.
Okay. So 1.21 you can find here or ask IP. So when you find the IP then if user
is saying okay let me check so you just go to Delhi router and check
okay so are you able to google.com or something like that so you can check arp
and do you see the IP address MAC address of that machine yes 4 AB and then you copy the MAC address of 4 A you
go to the switch and find MAC address of 4 AB and if you do not see okay so just
ask him to just go to the device and ping any Google IP or server IP
whatever. Okay, just generate some traffic and
find the MAC address table and find where is your port connected. Can you see that I got to know 4AB on FA01.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Now this FA01 I got to know and then I can check my van table if it is in the
correct ven or not. So right now my van is one only. So there is no problem right now. But yes sometimes if vlan is
wrong you can put the user in the correct van by go to the router and check the MAC address and try to
identify what is the user problem or something like that. Means means this is how you can trace the port also that if
user is able to come to the router okay then you can check the MAC address then find his issues what user is getting
issue or not. Okay. If application is not working or something like that,
this can happen also at a remote location. So the remote user is saying
that I'm not able to connect to internet or uh like I'm not getting uh what we
call u IP address or my gateway means it can be a lot of issues. Maybe uh the
server has issues or uh uh like users are not able to go to the server mean
lot of users are saying we can't access server. So then you can easily go to the
machine and yeah trace route also or we already know the server at in Mumbai location then
you go to the Mumbai location and ping the server IP and if you are not able to ping then check the ARP. Okay, for try
to find if there is a MAC entry on that device. Okay, for 5.2. So 5.2 is this
MAC address 001 something like that. And then you can go to the switches. Okay,
these are normal switches. But in switches also there's a command called trace root MAC which is not there in
this device but maybe I can show you in further classes if uh I get a proper
good L3 image but as of now I think in this class today we just got to know the packet
flow because packet flow question.
Sir can I ask one question? Yeah. Yeah. So this uh when when we saw this packet
flow we we got to know the R protocol and all but where when and why this ARPA
protocol comes in picture. ARPA RPA is uh means uh where you have
seen ARPA. So when you uh when you open the router and you check the uh check
the MAC address of that uh IP it was showing ARPA.
RPA is uh that is like for uh DNS maybe
I can see here it is just sending a name server like but ARPA is like nobody
askked you ARPA thing. Yeah, I think reverse ARP is there RP but there is no
ARPA something RPA or ARPA is like what we call advanced research project agency
uh which is like who created internet that is ARPA. Okay.
But yes there is RP which is called reverse address resolution protocol. So
that is like uh when uh you request for IP address which is used by DHCP suppose
when you request that I need IP address and all that is uh reverse address
resolution protocol which is like you have the IP but you need you have the MAC address but you
need uh what we call MAC address IP address IP address okay I'm looking for IP DCP
RP Okay.
In router sir in router when when you open the router and a router.
Yeah. The last this this is ARP only. This is RPA in router AR protocol only.
Okay. Okay. So don't get confused. So in Cisco router Cisco show A R A R A R A R A R A
R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R is nothing just uh it's like protocol only AR
I'll talk to you tomorrow why it's showing me let me tell you is reason
it is RP is for address regation protocol and RPA
for Ethernet it is a keyword when there is a Ethernet interface it's ARPA
And when there is serial interface, it is some another one SRP Ethernet cable
ARP plus A. Like when uh the the packet adds the
Ethernet header. Yeah. Yeah. If it is a Ethernet cable you are learning the ARP on Ethernet
cable then it is called ARP A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A R A but it's not RP a
okay these are encapsulation type normally are on ARPA if it is a serial
cable it will show you SRP or something like that depends upon the connect cable
yeah depends on the cable cable yeah technology basically Ethernet is a
technology not a cable Got it.
Yes sir. So when you see the serial interface
if I show serial serial uh okay
now it's showing but that's RP is for Ethernet only.
Okay. So I'm just uh asking people who are not
able to understand today topic very well try to repeat the topic again
and there is one video I'm sharing. Okay. So that is like if you guys want
to like repeat there is a Hindi video also but um English video like you can watch
this class only but if you guys want like I can share one uh in your notes
those who can understand Hindi they can it is similar topic just maybe uh that
if you understand in Hindi maybe you can easily get that topic. Okay.
Still also is there sir video? Yeah, I'm sharing that here in your notes in the last. Okay.
How does a packet flow in network clear? The same topic just
in diff in Hindi language. Okay. Same thing. Here they go.
that what ARP what how we will send and all try to watch it even if you don't
understand Hindi maybe by looking at animation you will understand also right
okay so that is the topic so
okay so let's discuss what is energy
one okay
Okay. So this is trace root. Okay. Small topic 5 minutes only. Okay. So trace
root is basically like used for uh like tracing the packets that how I'm
forwarding the packet. But how it works normally very few people know
and this is basically if you go to your computer and type here trace rt the
command to trace root google.com. suppose and use hyphen d
uh hyphen d is basically give you uh fast output because it will not try to
resolve the DNS okay means do not try to uh check inside the DNS servers you can
say okay so the command is trace rtg google.com it will give me fast trace
route okay better so now you can see what do you see here how I'm getting
this output one by one one by one how I got to know why my computer is taking
some time because this happens at the back end. So whenever you try to go to
any router or any server Google, Facebook and all. So first basically how
I got to know that I have to reach this. So by default whenever you do trace root
so for the first time when computers generate a packet so you will send a
packet with a TTL value 1. So then what will happen you go to
router and say I want to google.com and router say oh google.com is very far
away from me. So ICMP time exceeded. Okay. ICMP like time time to live,
right? TTL values like I can only forward your packet to one router. TTL one means the packet can go to one
router. If TTL is two, packet can go to two routers. If TTL is three, router can go to three routers.
But how it will reach to the google.com? First we send a packet to TTL one. The
first router say I am not connected to that network. Then second time computer generate another packet. This time you
say TTL value two. The second router will reply okay you are still not able
to go to google.com. It is little far away. So the packet comes back again. ICMP
time exceeded. And third time you again increase the TTL value. Okay. So mean
you keep increasing that TTL value till the time you do not reach the router of
google.com. So this is how trace router work and you can test this also in this scenario. If
I try to go to 1.5 to 5.2 right and if I go to trace root and make sure on ICMP
because trace route also work on ICMP and now if I say trace RT
192 1685.2 two. So you can see a packet here. When I
open my packet, you can see inside outbound details the TTL value is one first. It means this packet will go to
first router and come back. Let's see if I forward the packet.
My router is going to give me this TTL value exceeded message. And I got the
packet and I got a TTL value exceeded message. Next time I will again send a packet but
this time I increase the TTL value. Okay, it's not showing me but I think after that packet
I okay it's uh difficult to track all the packets properly. Yeah, this time if
I see okay still it is showing me detail value one.
Why it is not increasing?
Deo this is the reason I'm not able to forward uh I think it is just showing me
yeah now you can see it is increased okay don't panic sometimes packet tracer
will show you multiple packets tail value one so now tail value two now the packet can go from delay to R2 but R2
will give me TTL value back now because R2 is not able to go to server now again
my computer is going to send a packet again by now with the TTL value. Okay, it's showing me TTL value two again. I
think it's trying multi I don't know in packet tracer but normally it will now increase to three
three it's taking a little time but it's okay.
Yeah, now you can see TT value three right. So now TTL value three. Now this
time R2 can forward the packet further to the server. So now we reach the TTL
value and this is where I got to know the complete trace route. This is the
reason when you do the trace route the first time your packet go to router and
comes back. This is where you see the first when you go to the second you tail
value the second device reply. And now the third packet is getting back. So
when the third packet is getting back there you complete the trace route completely.
Okay. Okay. Third packet is going again. Get
the reply and now
yes. Can you see that I got the reply from 5.2. Now means how we trace root. This is a scheme. Okay. This is a trick
that first I put TTL value so that my this device will reply, right? Then I
increase TTL value so that my second device will reply. Then I increase TL value to so that my third device will
reply. And this is how the same thing happening in my trace route. If you go
to google.com, okay, what I'm checking here, so you can see all the trace route. So it means all
those routers are replying me back. So if you imagine this in the real world what should
so it means how 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and
this is one router only okay 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 so it means this is
your laptop where you say google.com one router 2 router three router four router
five router six router seven router Eight router 9 router 10 router
11 router 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Okay 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 and 13.
And this is your Google server. Okay. Or uh this is your Google because uh the 13
hop is for server only. Okay. So this is how you are connected. So the first IP
192 1681.1 19200
73 192.1 The third is 172 to 18.12.21
21. The fourth is
2481. Then 249. Means first you send a packet.
This value we got with the TTL value 1. Then Tail value 2 3 4 5. We keep
increasing the TTL values until the time we do not get the trace route completed.
Got to know how tra work works. Sometime it will come star in between.
Star tar means that device is like not responding or just uh my packet got
stuck. This is why I'm retransmitting the packet again. Okay.
Okay. Yeah. Can we use command for calculating
latency or identify which is giving more latency? Latency it's okay for just normal but
there is a tool called uh the tool name is uh
ipuff Ipuff is getting used for uh right
bandwidth throughput it will show you latency also
latency also ipf will show you the bandwidth plus latency laty also but it's okay to test
that latency because obviously you are not checking the latency of your small packets you are looking at the normal
traffic latency right so you can check
because because uh if you ping google.com now you just ping it
just google.com it is showing less latency yeah 12 13
yeah but In each hop it is showing more letters. Uh in 10 hop it is showing 40.
It's okay. If you see from this server it is taking time but normally it's four five four five four five because what is
what is this latency? How much time it is taking when I forward a packet to the router? How much time it is taking to
reply me back. So these are the reply timers.
This is not the that how much time you are taking to go to the device that is
reply timer because you see the reply in the ping packets also it means how much
time Google is taking to reply the packet to you that's called TTL value what we call this uh time value in the
packet it means we will not able to conclude uh which hop is giving more latency by
you can see but it is not actually you can see if This device is taking maybe
router is just taking time maybe in this packet only because trace root packet is
like uh you can say it is working on UDP. Okay. And uh the uh the ping packet
only uses ICMP. ICMP. Okay. So in here we are using UDP also.
So UDP packet header is also 8 bytes and ICMP is also 8 bytes. Okay. But in UDP
we are transferring multiple UDP packets. But in here you are just sending like four packets here you are
sending multiple lot more than that and while uh while using this
uh just let him complete guys. Yeah. Yeah. While using this loop command how
many packets it is sending while sending it to first?
First off we just if you know the MAC address then it is just you send the
first packet you get the reply time exceeded message and once you get the time exceeded message router your
computer understand okay now I have to increase the detail value please check this uh
but but here in that output just can you open that same
in this output it is ging three latencies 1 millcond 1 millcond 1 millcond it
means it is uh max hours average hours and minimum. So it is like when you are sending a
prox okay and uh this is where the device is replying me back okay with the
time exceeded uh something so three hops it is like windows properties if you do
on router or Linux then it is a different output. Yeah. Yeah. While we were uh in
simulation mode, it is sending three packets I believe.
Okay. So, let me check because you verified it. Huh? Windows maybe maybe Windows is
sending uh three packets to one hob. Maybe we can test it again. 5.2
one. We got the reply again. We try to reach
that Windows is taking around three packets and then it is showing you the three three timers for that packet.
It is Windows behavior not trace root behavior. First of all, okay.
Okay. equal different if you try to do this on trace route
from Delhi router suppose if I check from router by typing trace route 1926
to5.2 two. Okay. So, you can see I can trace root from here. It is uh also
Yeah, it's showing me three here also. It's good. Uh take three. Okay. Why it's
not okay. Simulation ICMP. Yeah. Why it's not showing me the packet?
I don't know why it is not showing me packet here. Yeah, it's stuck here.
Router two. Okay, sorry.
It's not showing me from router
three packets.
I don't know why it's not showing me the but yes, here also we can see three timers. Yes. Uh three, it is doing three
times. It means by default it is setting.
Yeah. Yeah. Three three. All this happened three times. I can read here. There is a blog here. I can see. Okay.
So I will share this link also. Okay. So all this happened three times before the
source machine send the next packet by incrementing TTL value 2. So you can see in a wireshark capture we are sending
almost three ICMP ping packet request and we got three uh exceeded message.
Can you see that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, this is how we do trace
route and you can see all the stuff. Okay. That how many uh like we are doing
multiple trace route and this is all the back end what is going on.
So when you check the trace route with the google.com it is giving you almost 12 to 13 ops and in the end you can see
this google public DNS something. So normally Google is sending lot of
packets okay and also if you put a hyphen t it is continuously going to trace root but
after 30 hop is the maximum limit. I think it's a good one.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm sharing in your notes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
But uh so you are confident in trace route also right guys?
Yes. Yes. Because in interviews people can ask you okay tell me how trace route works. So
how to answer that? Let me tell you that also. So when you when somebody ask okay
computer is going to google.com how trace route works then you can say uh
when I ping from uh computer ping google.com so my computer is going to
generate a packet with the TTL value one so the packet hit on the first router router send me TTL value exceeded time
exceeded message and when computer got to know about this ICMP time exceeded
now I will increase that TTL value two Then it will hit on the second router.
Then it will keep hitting on the routers by increasing the TTL values. And when you reach to their final destination,
the final destination will give you ICMP destination reachable message uh
unreachable or reachable reachable message. Okay. So this is the theory. You guys can read that also. Okay. Added
to your blog. So what we have done today, we understood the uh behavior between two
computers. Then we have seen like four computers connected to switch. Okay.
Then we connected two routers and understand about the packet flow from one network to another network. And then
we understood about the trace route. Clear.
Hello. Yeah. Hello.
Hello.
This is LAN network only.
192.168.12.168
network you are directly connected you do not need trace route race trace route is required when you know you want to
know the path local is connected to 1.7 or you can check on
switches you can check the VLAN right but yes in if you have routers or
if you have done subnetting Okay, you can check trace root but it will not give you proper result. Okay, in LA
network. Hello. Hello. Hi sir. Hi sir.
Reply switch. Sorry. MAC address.
I'm not switch IP ARP is to uh tell me the uh definition
again get the MAC address with the help of IP address.
Okay. Okay. So this switch do not know any IP address. If it is a layer three then my
gateway is not router then my gateway is layer three switch. In the case of VLAN in the case of SVI topic what we have
done right? Yes sir. In that case my gateway is not my router. My gateway is my layer three
switch. Then in that case layer three switch will give me reply of ARP.
Okay.
M 5.1 52 1.1 or 1.2
Sir MAC address what is my address 1.1 1.1
because so when you send a packet
from di to router two so packet will come also back right so at that time
router two need MAC address of DIY
okay it is a birectional ping whenever you do ping it is a birectional traffic Not you
one direction.
MAC address
IP has some rules. So I told you now. Okay. Okay sir. So TCP IP rule says like you are driving
a car you need to drive a car in India on the right side on the right steering. Right. The same way
traffic right. The internet rule says that I need IP and MAC address both
because IP will help me to forward my packet from source to destination.
But during hop by hop I how I will transfer my data from Delhi to Mumbai,
Mumbai to the office G.
So I told you that it is changing MAC address. How they are changing MAC address? Because how he got to know when
you forward the packet to Dilli then how Dilli know that I want to forward now traffic to router two. He got to know
and he will change instead of changing IP because if IP will change your packet
will be lost but I will not change IP I will change MAC so that I can forward
packet from one small station to another station. It's like a railway train right
you are going from Delhi to Agra and you are the passenger that you want to go to
Delhi to Agra but during your journey these are the stations that your train
will stop here go from this station to this station this station to this station right and you will reach your
destination but throughout your journey the train will stop at
different different stations also right for example Now at that now when you
forward packet to di forward ra2 right di cannot forward to
server directly. So when you are forwarding hop by hop di to Mumbai Mumbai to Chennai. Okay these routers
are forwarding the information with the help of MAC addresses to each other. Okay. Got it?
Yes sir. So yes,
yeah da tell me uh sir if there's firewall in between would trace route help me identify uh
because you said there is an inaccuracy uh when it comes to LAN network in terms of as I understand you're saying
inaccuracy in terms of IP address. So sir if there's a firewall and if a user is asking uh suppose I'm a user and if I
want to know that I'm getting blocked by firewall would trace root help me in it.
So if a company has given permission that they have enabled ICMP in your
company then it will not create problem. Okay. But if ICMP is blocked in your com
internal network or if it is a firewall firewall is blocking ICMP then it is a
challenge for us to trace root and check the pattern with the firewall with if
there is a firewall. Okay, it will stop you and show you the IP address of firewall in the trace route and then you
can easily identify that my trace route is going to this hop only. Then you can
see that IP check that IP and that this IP belongs to firewall and then
obviously we've got to know the firewall is blocking the trace route. Okay. And so you mentioned inaccuracy.
Inaccuracy in terms of IP address is it? Well, inaccuracy because see ISP
networks are hidden. They want to protect their ISP networks. So whenever we search on Google or something
sometimes you do not see some hops because they have done some MS or they
in MS there is a concept called hide TTL value. Okay.
Okay. That you can protect your ISP by MS hide TTL value.
Okay. Okay. So there are few you can see disable MSTL propagation. Okay. This is
for security that no hacker can come to know that ISP is actually connected to
how many routers that ATL has 200 routers or 300 routers whatever they do
not want to show they do not want to uh you can see here right if it is 253 it
is 252 it is 251 this is normal right but if you disable no MSI IP propagate
these commands okay so you can see v forward 32 and this two will remain two
here. Okay, can you see that these devices are not decrementing the detail value
in right now in Google we can see sometimes multiple hops sometimes right
or sometimes we see this because of that that ISPs are protecting their network
so that they do not want to show you the real their internal network
okay okay okay because user just want to see how I'm reaching google.com if it there is
ISP between them they Obviously there is no logic of giving them explanation how ATL is connected internally
right got it. Yes. Thank you sir. Sir
can this help to reduce the latency. What
device
right? Hello. Uh
huh. Depends on the links, depends on the
speed. But whenever you do trace route, trace route is using ICMP. ICMP is very
small packet, eight bytes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh
yeah sir yes Anil anil anal question anal
s when when I ping to google.com I can see there is ttl is 59 what is
mean sir I'm very when you ping google.com
so when you say see the total value 11511 so every operating system
yes every operating system has a different different retail value. Okay, like if
you see here, okay, like Windows has 32, Cisco has 255, Red Hat has 64, Solaris
has 255, right? So now when you see 115 so it means Google is giving you reply
and Google when when Google is replying you back maybe they are using any Linux operating
system or somewhere because when Google is replying you back so the routers are
going to decrement the value and the final detail value you will see here
because when you ping google.com so you see reply packets not your own packets Right.
You can't see your value. You can use a wireshark and see that by default
Windows is going to send a retail value what 32.
Okay. But maybe
screen.
Hello. Okay, sir. Windows is go
1 2 3
one see depend on operating system this is what I'm saying okay just say Linux
okay so whenever you send see the tail value TCP UDP ICMP all has different different retail value. So when a Linux
machine okay when a if you use a Linux laptop and say I want to go to google.com so your Linux machine is
going to say 255 TTL value. So what does it mean that your packet can travel
maximum at 255 route tail value means router the TTL value means how many
routers a packet can go. Got it? This is called TTL value.
If it is 255 the packet can go to 255 routers maximum.
If it is like a windows machine and if you are sending ICMP it is 255 also but
for TCP it is 32 UDP is 32. So whenever you forward any packet
okay it's answer. So when a host A computer A want to go to computer B. So
if it is a Linux machine packet will send to first router with three value 255. The second router will decrement
value by one make it 254. So 254 a 254 will become 253 252 means host B will
receive what 250 clear now
exact Acne root
Google.comusion
suppose if these are 13 hops it means is there. So your computer is going through
13 routers. Okay sir. First your packet will go to this
router. Then it is ISP. This router this router this router means it will go till
the time you do not reach Google last server IP. This is the server IP of
google.com. So these IPs which are above then server IPs. All these are router
IPs which are between your computer and google.com.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
Yeah. Question.
network. What is my
change?
VP is a little difficult here like you have to use VPN tools like you can change them
but
yeah it's their return over like uh you can use a VPN only
but normally in production networks it's little difficult
Then he can use a VPN. I got to know
there is a browser to browser something.
Okay.
If you use Safari, Safari is like Apple browser. Safari
but normally change.
talking about public IP I guess. Yeah, if you use any different browser like nowadays there are a lot of browsers it
will hide your IP but IP request
IP related uh I don't think they can hide your IP obviously your information
to public is open bro this is the only reason you are able to open google.com
if google don't know what is your IP then how he will allow you to enter in his zone
Yeah, you can change the public by using the VPN and selecting the
different location. Yes. Yes. Ruth network.

