ript


record outer what is switch. Okay. Okay. So let
me give a quick overview what we have done so far and it is it will be a good
revision for the people who have uh attended all the
classes. Okay. So we started from very basic like what is
uh network devices. Okay. So like what is router, what is switches, all those
basic what we call network devices. Okay. So let me add some network basic
nodes also. Yeah. So these are the ones. That's okay. Yeah. So you can see
this is cabling chapter I think. Ignore that. Uh
Okay, I think uh I have used some handwritten notes. I remember.
Okay, no worries. Uh let me check if I have
yeah again I'm getting those okay no worries uh let me check from the browser okay so
basically we started from very basic like uh what is uh NIC card okay so NIC
card is basically uh like every computer has this NIC chips so NIC is network
interface card which helps help computer and laptops to connect with the LAN cable and they are available in two
categories wired and wireless. Nowadays it is also available in the USB and IC.
Okay. So if you have a laptop and uh you can connect in the LAN port and u
nowadays laptops come with wireless also uh also laptops has a wireless what we
call Bluetooth right so basically so nowadays every laptop has around three
MAC addresses because one NIC means one MAC address in a computer okay so if you
have a wire connection in the laptop like if you have this type of port in the laptop top and if you have Wi-Fi in
the laptop also you have Bluetooth in the laptop it means you are getting almost three MAC addresses in the laptop
okay so that's NIC card so which help like a computer to connect with the
network okay so now when we talk about network like how to connect multiple computers we use switches okay so
switches not these switches what we call the network switches these are the power plug switches so basic Basically this is
a device which help like uh uh like you
can connect your cameras, IP phones, computers, laptops, printers. Okay, if
you want to connect a lot of devices together then this device is popularly
used in the network. Every company has a network switches. But before the
switches, there was very old devices that was called hub.
Before the switches, there was a device called hub. But they are obsolete. They
are dead from the market. Nobody uses hub. The problem with the hub is if you
send data from one computer to another, the data will go to everywhere. It is
like what we call broadcast. You can see if you send to one location it will
forward to all other devices means that's called broadcast. Okay. So this is not a good thing. And then we have
and hub do not learn MAC addresses. Okay. If I so we have installed one
software from Cisco that is called Cisco packet tracer. Okay. So it's a quick
overview. I cannot go in detail right now but it it is just a revision for the
old guys and those who joined recently. It is just a overview but you guys have
to complete uh those classes from my uh previous uh videos. Okay.
So uh how to download packet tracer on our networking channel. So please bookmark this channel guys uh because we
upload lot of content uh and sometimes we do lot of good webinars also uh so
let me share this link with all of you. So please bookmark this channel. Okay like I have bookmarked here on my Google
Chrome you can see. So whenever I want to see my networkings video I just click here. Okay. Okay. So now you can see uh
under this video section uh if you want to install packet tracer, I have already
created how to download how to use packet tracer. Please watch this video how to download packet tracer. Even I
have covered in the live classes. But uh you do not have to wait. You can just watch 4 minutes video and install the
packet tracer software which is free. Okay. So now you can see we have uh
computers here. These are the network devices, routers, switches, hubs, right?
And if I take hub, okay? And if I take a switch,
if I add four laptops and this is new for everyone like what
is the difference between hub and switches and let this is the cable connection. Okay, so this is the
computer. I added four computers. I added one hub from this network devices.
Go to hub. Just drag and drop. Okay, drag and drop. And then I go to switch.
And I added this switch 2960 something. Okay. So we have four computers this
side, four computer this side. Now I'm going to connect with the cable. Okay.
So this is the automatic cable. So just you can click here. So when you click it
is like one by one you have to take. But if you press control button and then
click then this cable will be in your hands only. Okay. So it you do not have
to choose again and again it okay so that's easy configuration and now just
stop it. So you can see we have added four devices on the left side where we
have the uh hub okay which is very old device as I mentioned. Okay. So, which
is network hub versus switch.
Okay. So, so the lookwise like uh the hub was like very small devices they had
very less number of ports like four or five or eight ports but nowadays switches have 24 ports 48 ports. Okay.
So now if I go and give the computer IP address. How to give IP address in the
packet tracer? Click on the laptop. Go to desktop. Go to IP configuration and
then just type any IP. So let me give here 1.1.1.1.
Okay. So this is what we call subnet mask because this is class A. So class A
uh has a range. Okay. Okay. So basically we have class A which has a range from 1
to 126. Okay. Class B which is 128 to 191. Class
C which is 192 to 223. And then we have class D which is 224 to
239. And class E which is 240 to 255. Okay.
So whenever you see any number from 1 to 126 remember so there is a subnet mask.
What is this subnet mask? What is subnet mask? Which represents
the network bits. Okay. So network bits means if it is class A. So class A is
called 255 0 0. So what which means uh
like uh if you have two computers like suppose
if I click here you can give a name here but I'm giving IP over here. So you can see 1.1.1.1.
Okay. Here I give IP but this is not IP. I'm just changing the name of laptop.
But actual IP in the packet tracer you click on the laptop go to desktop then
IP. Here we give IP. But when I'm typing here it is just a name. Okay. Like laptop has a name laptop zero. So for my
easy understanding I'm giving numbers over the name. Okay. So don't get
confused why I'm giving IP over here. So 1.1.1.3 this is 1.1.4. Okay. So now if you see
all these computers are in same network or not. So how we will check? We will
check from their by default subnet mask. So what class is saying only 1 255. So
which means I will only check the first portion because it is 25500 0 0 which
means my first part is my network part and the other parts are my host parts.
It means the first part of all the computers it should be same. Can you check the first part one one and one? So
all these machines are will be able to communicate with each other. Okay. So let me show you. So if I
give IP 1.1.1 here 1.1.1.2
okay then I go to this laptop 1.1.3.4
four. Okay. So now if I try to ping, you
cannot see the broadcast packet, right? Because ping is a tool to check the connectivity. If I am on the first
computer, but if I ping all the machines, okay, like 1.2, you cannot see
the broadcast. You cannot see the broadcast that how actually your system
or hubs are doing broadcast or not. But actually this device it is like a power
socket uh what we call power surge. If you go to Amazon and buy a power power
surge. Okay. What is uh uh
yeah. So if I go and buy a power surge adapter or what we call here in India power socket plug right whatever
extension. So if you see what is this? This will convert one power socket into
multiple power plugs. Right? Hub is also doing the same. It is like you it is
like uh if you get one connection, okay, it is like connecting four computers
together but hub is not learning any MAC address. It is just a device. We cannot
configure anything. It is just plug and play device. H. So it is like plug and
play device. You just connect the computers with each other. Okay? Like
four computers and you can uh you can uh what we call you go and connect uh what
we call that uh Wi-Fi router or something like that. Okay. But but we
cannot test the broadcast here. But there is a mode in packet tracer that's called simulation mode. You can see real
time. So here I'm doing the practical on the real time window. But if I click on
the simulation. Okay. So it will pop up a message that I'm going to monitor all the packets.
Okay. So you can choose whatever you want. Okay. But right now you can ignore this. But now I go here and again
generate a packet. Remember when you generate a packet on the simulation mode
it will not give you reply. It will instead create a packet over here.
Reply. Okay, because up simulation mode, you are on simulation mode that's why it is not going to give me reply. So once I
enter it will create a packet. You can see it is created like this. Now how to
forward this packet? There is a button here. Click on this button. The packet is going to hub. And again if I click
here, you can see what is happening. The packet is going to all the computers.
But actually what I given here 1.1.2. So now 1.1.2 2 is not rejecting packet
because the IP matches with the packet IP address because in the packet the
destination is 1.1.1.2. So actually when I forwarded the packet
I already entered my destination here that I want to go to 1.1.2 and this
computer say yes 1.1.2 is me but 1.1.3
and 1.4 is saying we are not 1.1.2 to the IEP address is wrong. So that's
okay. But now what is ping? Ping means packet is like going to destination and
destination is giving me reply. Right? That's called ping. So if I go to my uh
terminal or what we call command prompt and if I say ping google.com
so google is giving me reply. So it means my packet is going to google and then google is giving me reply. This is
what we call ping. Ping means a testing tool to check the connectivity. A
testing tool to check the connectivity. Okay. And there is a trace route also which is
called trace route which is to check how my packet is going. Okay. What is the
path in between? What are the routers? So you can see this is my first router. This is then ISP router. So to go to
google.com I have almost 9 to 10 hops 9 to 10
routers to go to google.com. So trace route help me to dis uh uh to show you
that how your traffic is going to google.com and ping is just a normal tool to check the connectivity. Okay. So
now when I pack it forward it to 1.1.2 two the packet is now coming back you
can see and when the packet is coming back again hub is sending broadcast so
means when the packet is coming hub is doing broadcast when the packet is getting going for reply then also it is
doing broadcast every time this single damn machine is doing broadcast every
time so this is not a good device this eat up a lot of bandwidth in the network
bandwidth choke spoke lot of problems with hub and the biggest reason the hub
has very less number of ports it has four to eight ports okay so now let's go
back to the real time we have tested the hub now we are going to the switch side
so this time I'm taking IP like 17216.1.1
okay so now you check this IP belong to class B.
Okay. So if you see the IP addresses, all these IPs are class B.
Okay. So it means class B stand for range is 120 to 191. So 172 lies in
between uh 128 to 191. Right? So class B
class B has a subnet mask by default 2 * 255. So it means it will check the first
two portion the first two portions are network. Okay. So now if you see all four
computers uh the first two digits are same or not.
Yes they are same. So it means if I give this IP address to all the machines they
will communicate. Okay. Let me give the IP.
If you want you can test by giving that wrong IP. And you can test yourself. Okay. But uh
I'm giving the correct IPs but you can give wrong IPS and test. Okay. So I've
given the correct IPS. It means that if I go on simulation
and if I send a packet to okay. So, so remember when I click on
simulation there are lot of services by default the device is capturing so if
you get little bit technical okay so I would recommend you to click on show none that I do not want to see the
packet edit filter I only want to see the ICMP packet because your ping and
trace route both work under ICMP protocol which is internet control message protocol okay so what is ICMP
Internet control message protocol. So this protocol your Tnet your uh not Tnet
sorry what we call the ping trace route all all these services work under ICMP
protocol. Okay. So so you just enable ICMP because I only
want to see the ping packets and you can see there is on the filter ICMP is being monitored. And now I go to first machine
and enter the second machine IP or whatever IP like uh let me enter 1.2.
You can see we have again generated a packet. Now I told you there is a difference between switch and hub. So
when we are forwarding packet to switch.
So switch do not know where is 1.2. So when switch do not know anything it will
send because switch check what under the switch
there is a table called show MAC address table so I think we have already given
the ping that's why we are learning MAC but by default it is empty you can say clear
MAC address table so this means uh by default it is like clear this is how the
new switch looks look like there is no MAC address entry and now a switch is
sending broadcast or not. Let me show you again. So sometimes if you are not
getting broadcast and all you clear the MAC address table
okay and again if I go and check simulation
so now let's see packet is going to switch and switch is doing broadcast. So
switch is also doing broadcast because switch do not have the MAC address. But when we forward anything from the
switches, switch learn MAC address and when the packet is coming back now it is
going to only one machine. Okay. So now now next time if I go and create the
same packet for the same device, we do not have to send broadcast. You can see directly it is going one by one. So how
it is happening? because switch maintain a table called show MAC address table
and you can see so when I say I want to go from 1.1 to 1.2 two. So switch
already check okay both MAC addresses are on my FA01 FA02 so these are called
port numbers so you can see FA01 is this MAC address fa02 is this MAC address and
that's how the show MAC address table is showing you both MAC so so when switch
has the MAC addresses switch will not do broadcast okay so let me show you again
simulation if I again try to go to 1.2 two you are directly sending the packet
there is no broadcast packet is also coming back to the same condition
but in any case if real time simulation and if I try to ping 14 let's say what
will happen 1.4 and this packet going to switch do not have 1.4 four MAC address.
So it will okay I think we already have now. Yes. So if we have MAC address simple in
simple short language if we have the MAC address then we will not do broadcast.
If we do not have the MAC address then we will do if we have MAC address we will do
uniccast and if we do not have the MAC address it we will do broadcast. Very simple.
Okay. So this is the main difference between hub and switches guys and after
that what we have done in the
so these two different networks I hope you guys can see this clearly and now we
have added a router because two different this is a different network.
Okay. So you different network. Okay. So both sides there are two
different networks. Right. So how to communicate when we have two different networks. So the only solution
router. So we add a hub cable to the router. You can see and now you can see
what is this giga port. This is like 1 GB port. This is the latest router you can say.
and a other router also connected like this. So when you would add a cable of
LAN network so remember you have to give any random IP from the same subnet. So I
would go for 1.1.1.100 that's a round figure number kind of
okay because 1.1.1 already I have assigned to this machine and this side is class B. So I'm again
1726.100. Okay. So these two IPs I have to assign
to the router because both networks are directly connected to this router. So if
I go to the router again, go to CLI. So all these practicals we have done
already. You guys can check uh the class name I think connected two different or
first router practical enable. This is the first thing how we enter in the
router. Then we say configure terminal and then we go to the interface
GIG0000 IP address 1.100
no shutdown. Okay. So no shutter down we have given here.
And now we will go to 172.
interface gig 0001 IP address
172. So what we are doing here we are giving the class a subnet mask with the
IP because the IP we have to give on the GI0000 on the another side it is interface
GI0000001. Okay. So sometimes I write interface, sometimes I write only short form in. So
uh it is like Linux uh like it will pick the short forms also. So we have given
the IP but this time we have to give 2 * 255 because this is class B
no shutdown. Okay. So we have given this and also I
have taught everyone how to make DHCP so that these machines will get automatically IP and this machine will
automatically get IP but no need here because we have already given the static IP to say we have already given the
static IP to all the computers so no need to give DHCP okay so what do you
think guys can we ping 1.1.1.1 to 172.1.1
yes how many of You say that we can ping raise hand.
Okay. Go and join Congress.
Okay. Okay. So, so basically you guys are wrong. uh you the these machines
will not ping each other because we have not given the gateway. This is how you troubleshoot the basic commands. Okay,
you can see we do not have a gateway here. The gateway means router IP. And if I try to go in a different network,
my computer will not go. So if I ping 17216.1.1
basic
okay so you can see requested timeout the only people who have not raised hand they have done practicals if you know if
you do practicals you should know that default gateway is the very important
thing for a network because if you do not give default gateway your computer will not go outside the network. Default
gateway means exit point of the LAN. This is my exit point of this LAN
network. I can only go to another department if I have this gateway inside
my computer. Okay. So the same way you have to give in all the computers
1. Okay. Okay. So now I have given the gateway and now now tell me how many of
you think that we can ping raise hand now.
And the people who has not turned their cameras on and they are raising hands
slow claps for you.
Okay. Okay.
Yes. Okay. So, yes, we will definitely able to ping. Okay. So, let's see.
Yes. So, we we got the ping guys. You can see. And remember
computer always store LAN network devices. There is a table called ARP. So computer store LAN
network devices. You can see we have only stored the MAC address of my
gateway. But I do not have the MAC address of 17261.1.1
because that is not my network. If I ping 1.1.2 If I ping
1.1.1.2 2 if I ping 1.1.3
if I ping 1.1.4 four. Okay. So, so uh so
right now if I check R - A which is called address resolution protocol
address resolution protocol. So you can see we have copied all their MAC addresses in the system because if you
have this entry your computer will not send broadcast packet to switches and
hubs. I know that hub will always do broadcast whether your computer has IP
with MAC or not. In hub case always broadcast. Okay. But it is helpful when
you have a switch. Okay. You share the packet to switch. Okay. I want to go to
this location. Okay. So this is like R plus switch MAC address table both are
important. Okay. But here you can see we have a hub but still we have the LAN uh IP
addresses and their MAC addresses. But if I try to go in a different network,
if I try to ping a different IP in a different network, you cannot see that
MAC address in the ARP table because to go to that location we have a gateway
because you only store your LAN devices MAC address not outside network devices.
Do you think your laptop will save Google IP address in the ARP table? No.
So if you see ARP - A of my re my laptop right now. So you can see all these
devices maybe they are connected to my network somehow. Okay. But you cannot
see any public IP here. All these are called private IPs.
Okay. So that's that's the basic uh fun we have done. This is why one router is
only required here because we have two different networks and we attach one one
cable to the router and we have not done routing. Why? Because both are directly
connected. So there is a command show ip route which is to check the routing
table and you can see this is my network. Okay. And this is another network means both are my network.
Okay. So when you see a C, C means my connected network which is directly
connected to me. Okay. But if you see L, L means that IP we have given on the
router interfaces. Okay. You can check that also. Show ip interface brief.
Okay. So the same IP we can see here. But don't get confused when you see this /32.
Okay. So this is /8 which means that class A is called /8
SL B is called 16. Okay. So after that I'll show you class C
which is called 24 because we have 3 * 255. So 1 8 bit is called 255. So 1 8
bit represent you can see 8 means 255 88 86. So that's why 22 255 and 3 888.
So 3 * 255.0 it means three network portion and one host part. Okay.
So remember when you have class A we check only first digit and they will be
able to communicate with each other. Okay. If uh you have class B we will
check the first two portions like 172 and 16. And if you have class C, we have
to check the first three portions. Okay. We have to check the first three portions.
Okay. So after that uh
now if I want to connect so consider this office is called head office. Okay.
And if I want to connect a small office uh like uh maybe let's say branch
okay and if I want to connect a cable it will not be able to connect because by default in packet tracer in uh we have
two ports. So you have to save the configuration of a router by saying write command. So you save the
configuration then you shut down the router. Why I'm doing shutdown? Because
I have to add extra port here. You can see GLCTE something. So I'm adding some
extra ports. Again I enable the router.
I enable the router again.
Okay. And now if I try to add a cable, you can see we are able to add a cable.
And now let me go and add a different network here because that's my branch
office. Okay. So let me add some servers here.
Okay. So maybe in my branch office we have some backup servers.
Okay, here uh so now if you feel like it is getting uh
difficult so no worries you have to practice this multiple times. So this
200 IP I'm giving to the router and this is like uh let's say 192 16.1.
So this is I'm giving class C now. So remember if you give 1.1 here so it
means server should be 1.2 1.3 like this. So remember first three portions
are same. If I change here uh 3.2 they will not talk 1.1 and 3.2 they are not
talk they will not communicate because this is class C. So class C will check first three portion.
Okay. So guys we go. Yes guys everyone good reision
okay okay okay so we have given 192 168.1.12
here 1.3 here so let me configure uh this remaining IP on G002 okay so
Because I I hope you remember that this router we can change the name also. Host
name head office. Okay, host name is the command and if you remember show ip
interface brief command is important. So you can see these IPs we have given on
the two ports but this is a new IP 20.2.
So configure a terminal interface gig00002
IP address 200.1.1.2 two
no shutdown and why you give no shutdown because by default my ports are down so
that's why I have to give no shutdown to enable okay but in switches we do not
require no shutdown because switches are plug and play hubs are plug and play but
routers are not plugand play you have to give the IP you have to give no shutdown then only it will work okay so head
office is done Write command is done. Now I go to branch office. Go to CLI
enable configure terminal host name branch.
Okay. Now under the branch I go here 001
IP address 192 1681.1. Okay. So this is the port. Okay. Zero.
So don't get confused when you see these two ports like this sometimes. So because this FA03 is the switch side
port and this is GI00001 uh router port. Okay. And there is no
problem if you have one side giga port, one side FA Ethernet. So giga port means
1 GB port, fast Ethernet means 100 MB port. So it's okay. No need to worry. So
we have given IP. So class C subnet mask is 3 * 255.
So 255 25525.0 no shutdown. Okay.
So we have given that and this interface is remaining interface GI000000
IP address 200.1.1.1. Okay. So again this is class C 3 * 255.
Okay. Okay. So we have done that guys and and if I go to these servers and give IP
remember to give gateway always. Go to server desktop IP.
Okay. So now if I try to ping from 1.1.1 to server.
Let's see if we will be able to ping or not.
Yes guys. So we are getting destination host unreachable
that I cannot go to the network. I cannot go to the network
right so we have to manually add the routes
okay that's called static routing so means in branch office and in the
head office we have to add their LAN networks as a destination so let me show
you so remember in head office we have two networks 1.1.1.1
and 7216.1.1. So there is a the first IP address of
the network you can get from routing table. So you can see 10008 this is the
first IP address of one network. So basically this is the network ID of
my network of 111. And if I check of class B, this is my
network ID of class B guys. Okay. And if you get confused why this
IP why not 11 1 0. Okay. So remember I told you that in class A
any IP address whether it is 111 5.5 999 77. Okay. So their IP always start
from the first number one and host portion is always zero 0 0 0 like if I
check about five it would be 5 0 0 0 and if I check about 7 it would be
7 0 0 and in class B if you have any IP
17261.1 we will check only first to portion 1726
0.0 because host portion host portion we will keep it always zero
in the network ID. So network ID is like home of IPs because there are lot of IP
maybe you have 400 IP address 500 but there should be some home IP address and
that's called network ID address like you have your home address
the same way network has any all the networks they have the network ID okay
so we already know the network ID now and these network ids we have to add in
the these two network ids. We go to the branch router.
Okay. Go to configure terminal. So first network I want to add is 1 0 0
and subnet mask and from where branch is getting this
network from where head office. So branch is connected to head office and head office IP which is connected to
branch is 200.1.1.2. So which is also called a next hop.
Okay. The IP which is helping me to go to head office. This IP is called next
hop. IP router. This IP is helping me to go
to that router. That's why this is called a next hop IP. Okay. So, next hop
IP. So, we will add the next hop IP 200.1.1.2.
Okay. The same way we have another network 172. So, this is class B. So,
1726 02 * 255. But who is helping me to go to
172 network? Again, this 200.1.2 to because you go to
you go to first 200 then router is forwarding your packet to 172 right so
that's the basic uh concept so we will add here one uh the next stop would be
same okay so branch is forwarding everything to the head office okay but
during this time uh like we have done from the branch now in head office we
should also add the return traffic because if you try to go to server okay
so uh head office should also have the server subnet okay
so we have done like three four practicals of static routing guys I would highly recommend you to revise
again and again okay so you can see 190 to 168 this is
class C but who is helping head office to go to branch the opposite so Remember
head office is going to 192 network with this IP right so this
is why this is called next hop so that's uh 200.1.1.1
right we have added and now let's see guys if I'm able to ping or
Yes, we got the ping. We got the ping.
Now, this is my head office, branch office. Everything is going well in my network.
But during this time I thought let's go and uh connect
let's uh
okay so there is in the Wi-Fi section there is a home router. Okay. Okay. So I'm just showing you this router. You
can consider as Okay. So you can consider this as
internet. Okay. Okay. So I have added a wireless router
stuff. Okay. So consider this is uh like ISP like internet service provider and
I'm attaching a cable again. It will create a problem I think.
And remember when you do some big practicals, make sure you save.
Okay, make sure you save and try to take the backup of your folder on Google
Drive and all in in uh if your laptop crash, you will not lose your packet
tracer files. I remember I lost 200 300 files when I was a student.
Okay, I have done lot of practices. Uh but I'll my laptop got uh what we call
formatted and backup. Okay. So
Okay. So just keep it uh save multiple times after 15 10 minutes. Okay. So so I
cannot add a cable again. I'm doing the same thing. Uh give the right command so that you do not miss any configuration.
Uh shut down the router. I need extra port. Go and click on the
GLC connector which will add extra port and turn the router again. And now let's
add a cable. So you can see we got the cable.
Okay. So this cable is attached by default when you connect it will connect
with the internet cable something. Okay. So,
internet.
Okay. Okay, I think I have to just give zero on the branch router.
On the branch router for new guys, I think this is again
if you feel like we are going a little advanc.
So if I say no shutdown, you can see the this router side I have not configured
anything because this router is like pre ready. Okay. So, it's almost uh connected I think.
Okay. But on GI002, I'm not getting any IP and I don't have any IP. I want that the router should
give me some IP this ISP. And if I go to GUI, you can see this is a GUI router
and the subnet we have here is 192 1680.1.
Okay. And DHCP is already enabled here. Okay. So there is some IP.
So this is 192 16.1.1. So this side we have 0.1 which is a
different network. By the way don't get confused. 0.1 and 1.1 they are two different
networks because see the third digit is different because in class A we check
first three portion and this side router IP is this. And if I go to the router
and say in the gig00002 I give no shutdown also give IP address
DCP. So I'm giving my router as a IP
from the DHCP. Okay. Because this router already has DCP. So if you connect router with the
router uh like uh you can get the IP also with DHCP. Show IP interface brief.
So I have not got the IP yet.
Let me try shutdown. And no shutdown again.
Mhm. Let's wait for some time.
I think uh it will give IP if I connect this with the uh LAN port. You can see
internet key instead of internet if I connect with giga port. Okay. So then I'll get the IP. You can
see I got the 0.00 IP guys. You can see I got 0.00 100 IP automatically.
Okay. And if I show you the branch automatically we got a default route. So
what is this default route? So normally in previous classes I told everyone that
you have to go to router and say IP route. So when you actually connect with the internet so in those cases you add
0000 which means any network. then again zero which means any subnet mask but I
want to forward traffic to 192 1680.1 so this is what we call default route
and it is mostly used for internet connectivity
for the internet connectivity okay but when you take the home router because in
your home also you have Wi-Fi type of router if you take a home Wi-Fi router or something that okay so I just attach
a Wi-Fi router with this router and I given the command IP address DC DHCP
something and we got the IP. Okay. And you can see we automatically
automatically got a default route. So you automatically we got automatically
default route here. Okay. But in in real world if you do not
have this type of router in your company then you have to manually configure everything.
Okay. Like you have to give instead automatically got a default route. In real world you have to add the static
default like this. Okay.
And now branch office already got a default route.
Show IP interface brief.
You can see we got the IP everything is okay.
Okay. So let's consider this is my ISP. If anybody can ping this 0.1 it means
they are connected to internet because if you can go till IP obviously ISP will
help you to go to internet right so our goal is not internet right now my goal is true that computer should ping this
IP 192 1680.1 let's say
you can see I'm getting destination host unreachable why because this computer is going from
head office and head office will forward all its traffic to branch because branch
is connected to internet. So I'm forwarding you can see my all static and static
route I have already added 1.0 zero but that I added only for branch LAN not for
the van okay for LAN or van whatever you forward all traffic to
that I forward head office all traffic forward to 200.1.1.1
so head office say because in this branch I automatically got a default
route but just to make it more practical. I'm just showing you this is
how we add the default route 0000 0 and forward all traffic to ISP. Now head
office is going to do the same thing. forward everything everything to the branch router 200.1.1
to my head office s traffic my all head office traffic will go to branch and
branch automatically got a default route because we added a home Wi-Fi router but if you add normal router like in
previous classes we have added in that router you have to manually add a default route okay so we got the default
route everything is okay 0.1 till Here head office is forwarding to branch.
Branch is forwarding to ISP. So let's try and ping. Can I ping 192
1680.1 now? Let's see.
No, we cannot ping guys because your head office know how to
forward traffic to branch because you have a default route forward traffic to
branch branch also know forward traffic to 0.1
but when packet come to ISP ISP don't know how to go back ISP
okay ISP do not know how to go back So
under uh
I cannot see the routing table.
Okay, advanced routing. But this option is disabled. Okay, but you cannot test
fully. But this is just a few things I wanted to show you. But uh
instead uh you can take uh one router like this.
Okay. Okay. So you configure
enable config 3 host name ISP interface GI 0
no shutdown. So that IP I'm giving here manually 0.1.
Okay. And my router is not getting IP now because uh we lost the router. And
you can see IP is gone. But still if you want to get the IP from DHCP
you can create a pool here like IP DHCP pool clients
network I want to give IP from 0.0 zero range.
Okay. And after that I say default router 192 1680.1. Okay. So we configure DHCP
and we should get IP here
interface GI 2 shutdown.
No shutdown. Let's see if I'm getting Yes, we got the IP0.2
IP we got the IP and if I try to ping again it will not
ping because uh this ISP let's say new
ISP so new ISP you forward traffic everything to new ISP but ISP cannot
give you uh revert right ISP is not giving me the revert
so This practical will be able to understand when you know how is NNAT.
Okay. So NAT is the real game changing of a network. But right now for just one
if you want a ping okay if you want that okay we have done lot
of things at least we will be able to ping. So do one thing just add all the
network ids of your LAN network in the ISP as a static route like IP route 192
161.0 okay so
this side we got 0.2 now that router IP was 192 168.0.2
two. Then we have 1 0 0 0
that also coming from 0.2
0.2 0.2 is this router. Okay, we got this IP from the DHCP.
So we added this network. Okay. Now if I try to ping yes we can
ping now right. But if I try to ping from 172
ping 192 168 0.1
no because you are pinging from 172 network and that is not added. If I add
1726 0
and we are getting the same from this IP. Okay. And I'm ping. If I try to ping
here now you can see earlier it is not pinging. Now it is pinging. So everything is reachable. This is how
we have done static routing, default routing and this is how uh you should
learn some practicals and do like we have done multiple times. I think three, four, five practicals we have done for
these static and default labs.
Okay. So let me check the questions. Wi-Fi normally connect to switch. Yeah,
those are access points. Gorov the this is not access point. This is a Wi-Fi
router. Now sir, what is the syntax? The these
syntax already I have written in the notes. Okay. Today I'm not teaching anything new. These are the topics we
have done already. Okay. So under your notes, if anybody do not have the notes, this
is the link. Let me share this in your chat.
Okay. And I'm sharing this bar code.
Okay. So guys uh just uh take a screenshot of this barcode. So in any
case if you lose your notes just scan this code from your phone.
done.
Okay, great. Okay, so
and uh the guys who joined uh new so there is a CCNA book inside your notes.
Okay, so just have a good read about the basics of networking and all. Okay, like
what is computer, Mac, whatever you understand, learn. Whatever you do not understand, ignore. Okay, because I will
be with you guys for next four five months. Don't worry, okay? And please be be be active on the ask portal. Guys, if
anybody has not created any account, please make sure you sign up, okay? And
uh please enter the same email what you have given on the admission, okay? And
please ask your doubts here. Okay. So last time I can only see there are two
three guys like this guys uh Gorav and uh
yeah only two three guys are very much active here.
Pervat is also active. Okay. So now he's asking about
difference between DHCP configuration and windows server.
Okay. So I'll reply him in free time because
so last replies I have given 2 three days back you can see I was giving
okay the more you guys active then more I'll be active but if you are not active
then I will also check once or twice a week but if you keep asking questions
then I'll be worried also oh man students are asking question let's go and reply reply them. Okay. So, at least
I want that I should be I should reply at least 3 to 4 days a week. Okay. So,
please ask your questions here also. In case if you cannot clear in the live
class, you can ask here also the QR code. Uh
okay, this is the QR code again I'm sharing. Somebody is asking. I'll share
this on your WhatsApp. Don't worry. Okay. And if you have not joined the WhatsApp uh channel
uh okay uh that is given on the live portal.
Okay. So this is a good lab what we have done today and ISP is also connected.
Everything is okay. So let's take a five 7 minutes break and
then come back. Okay. Sorry.
Okay. So the question is one that every you can see this is the router and if I
check uh show interface GIG0000
okay so you can see there is a MAC address of GI0000.
Okay. If I check about 001, there is a different MAC DC02.
This was a DC01 to you that every port has a different
different MAC address. And if I go to switch also, if you talk about switches.
So if I see show interface fa01.
So we can see there is a MAC address 75D01
FA02. This is 5D02 3. So every port has a MAC address.
Okay. And device also has their base Ethernet MAC address. You can check show
version. Okay. Under the show version there is a base MAC Ethernet MAC address
also. Okay. So normally why the most important thing is like uh the serial
number of the device. You can see this is the system serial number. What happens? So once as uh like when you get
a job and if you already have a job and if you get any Cisco problem you have to open a Cisco T case. Okay. So you can
see Cisco TAC case and uh go to this website opening a case with the TAC.
Okay. So this is the website cisco.com/teup support. So you can see open and view
cases and this is from where you raise a ticket. Okay. Cisco support assistant
and you can see please log. So uh this option will
enable if you are a partner of Cisco or if you got the credential from Cisco.
Okay. So when you buy Cisco devices from Cisco then only you get this option activated and then you can raise the
ticket to Cisco. So what is TAC? Basically technical assistance center
and there are lot of jobs available in the market for TAC engineers. So what are TAC? So tag people are like they are
the advanced engineers of the product. Okay. Like uh if you talk about Cisco
routing team okay so all the routers of Cisco right. So there are some experts
okay those who are handling only router issues and they know everything about
the box. They know about the hardware they know about the software. They know everything about the box and Cisco has
some hidden commands like lot of things. uh what are only for the internal use.
So if you become a TAC engineer okay so you get lot of things you become expert
of Cisco devices and uh these Cisco teams TAC like L1 TAC L2 TAC L1 is level
one TAC so that you will get a ticket to just replace the devices what is called
RMA RMA stand for uh what we call that uh uh
yeah return material authorization. No no no no no return there is a full form which is yeah return merchandise
authorization so which means that I want to return the product there is some problem with the Cisco part suppose
there is a module that I want to replace okay so Cisco has a support they will
change the part within next 4 hours 8 hours depends on what you are a silver
partner gold partner or platanium partner and these tickets will go to L1
engineers L1 engineers will check and change the products and all. Sometimes it will go
to L2 level. Okay. But L2 L3 is called the advanc issues like if a company is
not able to resolve the issue even their network engineers suppose you work for
uh good company like uh Apple. Okay. So uh like when I was in Apple like some
issues we will not able to solve our from our side. Then I have to raise a ticket to Cisco. Hey Cisco, can you
please help me? And being a network engineer at Apple, being a network
engineer at any good company do not make you the expert. Okay. But when you raise
a ticket to the Cisco tag team, they are also like levels L1, L2, L3, high tech
uh levels and all and then they will assist you because they are trained for all the advanced issues in the world.
Okay. And these guys know much better products like Cisco devices. If you join
routing team of Cisco TAC, then you'll be expert of Cisco devices, Cisco routers. Then there is a team of Cisco
switches, Cisco firewall, Cisco security, Cisco VPN. So there are lot of teams under the tag under Cisco. Okay.
And those tag engineers are going to uh help you. Okay. So why I'm telling you
this because this is a part of not of your CNA CCP but the people who are new
and if they do not know about the TAC profile the TAC is like the expert of
the product that I'll teach you the Cisco will teach you about the hardware software internal everything about the
device and then you will be like expert of that device and people will come and
raise the issues okay that I'm not able to solve and you guys are going to solve the issues and all. Okay, for that there
are TAC jobs like if you go and search about Cisco TAC. Okay, we talk about
Okay, so you can see uh
Okay, if I only search about tack engineer. Okay.
Okay. So, you can see Juniper also has stack engineer. Uh the any company who
make devices okay network devices any company who make network devices their
special engineers are called attack engineers okay so like you can definitely if you are a network engineer
from last many years and uh but still you want to get into tag so I think you
should apply uh jobs okay in tag uh that
means uh so why I'm telling you because if you go to LinkedIn,
okay, and uh so like if you if I ask
about your dream company, tell me in the chat what is your dream company?
Google, Facebook, Apple, Juniper, Cisco, NASA, one guy is writing NASA.
We will acquire NASA very soon. ISRO.
Okay. So, some many many people are saying Cisco, Google.
Okay. Siana. Okay. Is this your really dream company?
S BT. Okay. Yeah. Sometimes you should
take a practical approach because if you do not have good knowledge and you
planning to your uh dream job should be always the highest paying jobs right
that's the main logic okay yes so
yeah Abdul is saying my own company great Abdul that's the best thing My dream job was uh also networkings and
today I'm doing that. Okay. So my uh so yeah so why we should
always think about those dream companies so that you start looking for those
companies and what they are asking what they uh ask for what knowledge you
should have right so that's the definitely you should always check okay but what I'm trying to show you that
suppose if you have a good uh uh like you guys plan that I want to get a job
in Google. Okay. So, I'm just showing you. Okay.
So, people and let me see if I have connections
in Google. So, this is LinkedIn platform.
So, I'm just showing you that these guys are working and these are my connections, LinkedIn connections. Maybe
they do not know me personally but they know me as a LinkedIn connection but if
you check their profile most of them they worked uh maybe in Cisco or Juniper
you can see here Cisco and this was the Juniper CFTS stack
engineer okay and now he's working at Google if you go and hersel you can see he
worked in Cisco as the consulting means the same TAC engineer okay if you go and
say Amit uh he's in BT not Google okay but if you
check 90% of the people who are working with Google Microsoft uh Amazon Google
Microsoft Amazon and maybe any X good company maybe SpaceX and all these all
engineers are actually hired from Cisco or Juniper or some or other uh companies
Okay. So if you are planning for Google, Apple or uh like Facebook or any what we
call fang mang right okay if you're planning for very top level companies so then your first dream
company should be Cisco or juniper in my opinion rest your choice
okay because most of the engineers in the market whether it is Google or any company they
hire the experts because when you get into Cisco when you get into Juniper you get the expertise of the products right
you become like MD doctor okay you become like MD doctor now big companies
will hire you it's like that but if you keep working in normal companies like
HCL VRO TCS and all okay so then you are just
good guy with good knowledge but not expertise in the products. Okay. So keep
giving interviews that's the goal. And the uh last takeaway from the discussion
that these companies when you go to Cisco Juniper and all they ask you all
the packet level questions also that how the packet is traveling. Okay. So when you do a practical like what we have
done today it is not like that you just did what I did okay it is like you have
to explore yourself also okay no so what I'm trying to say when I give
you practical do that practical and then try to understand that from the packet
level then try to create your own practicals then try to understand that packet level of those means uh if I'm
teaching you X, you have to learn X + Y also mean keep going more advanced and
advanc for those dream jobs. If you have a target but if you are an average guy
then just change your mindset. Anybody can achieve. Okay, anyone can achieve. Okay,
so this is the good practical. Now
today after this lab
now I'm teaching you one uh dynamic routing protocol which is now
not in the syllabus okay so which is very very easy not in the syllabus no
companies are using that but if you learn this topic today it will take half an hour okay it will uh make easy for
you to learn EIGRP, OSPF. Have you heard about EIGRP, OPF?
Okay. So those are dynamic protocol like route. Right? Now what we have done like we have to manually manually add the
routes that we have to manually enter the routes but now we will do it uh
automatically. We will do something. Okay. So let me open the same lab.
Okay. So I will not remove anything you know how to give IP address right so but
what we will be doing here a router okay I have not given the save
I think that's why that one router is gone okay
fine
okay leave that router uh I think these two routers s are enough ISP we can
create later on okay let's create new one here I I think
you would be more happy to learn new okay so I'm so let's add four routers
and I would recommend you to add four routers uh like you can take 2811 router
okay so 1 2 3 4 okay and Let's connect
them like in a circle what we call square that all routers are connected like
this. Okay. So this you can give them name also like uh Delhi, Mumbai,
Chennai, Kolkata like this.
Okay. And
if you want a backup. Okay. So there is a backup uh like maybe like this is like
Mumbai and this is my data center. Data center it could be anywhere. Okay. And
all the locations are also connected to data center. Okay. Means you you have to
add extra port here. Okay. Uh
so we have to turn the route. So I have taken 2811 router again I'm telling you guys. So in this router we can add extra
ports like two. You can see we added this NM2F which is uh network module to
fast Ethernet. Okay. So uh let me go and quickly add
this module on. So which will give me two extra ports. Okay.
On
just drag and drop turn the router again. And now I'm adding the cable like with Mumbai data center as well in case
uh if my direct connection goes down.
Okay. So, this is a cool design, right? So, so let's uh give a IP between this
network 12.1.1 12.1.1.2. So, right now I'm not adding LAN
networks because let's focus on the routers. Okay. And uh this is like 13.1.1
and this is like 13.2. two
and this is okay. Okay. So just any random IPs you can give I have there is no problem
you give class A B whatever just opposite side it should be same okay to
opposite side facing each other should be same like 12.1.1 12.1.2 1311 13112 1411 14.1.2 two. Okay.
And between this network because they all are connected with one device, they all should be in the same network. Let's
say 15.1.1. This side 15.1.2. This side 15.3. This
side 15.4 like this. Okay. So this 15 IP we have to give to the router but Delhi
side. This is to Pune. This is to Chennai and this is to Kolkata. Okay.
and uh uh for my LAN networks we can create loop backs. Okay, those who do
not know loop backs loop backs are for testing. So right now I'm creating my
van network. Right now I'm doing my van network. So I
do not have to worried about my LAN network. Right? So consider this is
approach what we are following. Okay. So let's take a screenshot. This is what
okay and we will write here some IPs. Let's say this is my LAN network of
Delhi 192 1681.1. Okay. So this could be my LAN network in
future. So for testing I'm creating loop backs. Okay. 2.1. This is like 3.1. This
is 4.1. Okay. So this is a better picture. Let's take a screenshot
and go here and create a card.
Okay. So let's give a name here. RIP not rest in peace. This is routing
information protocol. Okay. But yes, the protocol is almost
RIP now. RIP is RIP now because nobody uses that. But this is very easy to
understand. Okay. Why we are learning this out of uh syllabus content today? because it's
easy to understand and it will help you
to it will help you to understand
OSPF, EIGRP, BGP easily not BGP, BGP is a
different uh protocol but OPF eagp in a much easy way okay
so now how to configure this very simple let's give IP addresses okay to IP
Let's give IP. So let's take from Delhi. Delhi router enable configure terminal
host name Delhi. Okay. Interface FA00
no shutdown. Okay. And
I don't think
because it's not in the syllabus. So I thought let's
okay so we have given the IP is no shutdown no shutdown no sh this no sh
means also no shutdown. So we have given the IPS and
let's give the IPS first. Okay. Copy.
You can do copy paste later on also. But I'm doing side by side. So that we can verify all the IPs are okay. Show IP
interface brief. All the IPs are okay. Well done. Okay. Well done.
Okay. So let's copy this and let's go to Pune. So
we have taken the flight and let's we landed to Pune. So Pune
Pune FA0014.1.1
FA1/15.1.3 FA0
Okay, the another port is FA1/ Make sure you do not do mistakes. Port number is
also important and yeah it's FA01 only.
Okay, this is FA01 only because we cannot have two ports with the same name
13.1.1.2. Okay to Pune. Let's copy the Pune the
Okay. Okay. So, we have done that guys. We have done our work in Pune. Let's
book a flight to another location. We have done that. Let's move to Kolkata
call. Okay. So, FA000
15.1.2 two. Okay. So, FA 1/0.
Okay. There is a problem. You cannot configure. So, we have to change 15 to
16 here. Okay. Because 15 we already have in the Mumbai data center, right?
So, we cannot give same IP to the router. So, I just change this to 16.
Okay. So, my bad. So FA1/0015.1.4
and FA01 14.1.2 two
right so copy
okay done guys so Kolkata is also done and let's go to Chennai
I remember uh in 2012 I was in Chennai and within 2 days
like too much hot city man. So FA00
see we people from north cannot survive in Chennai.
So FA006.1 okay Chennai is FA0
0 12.12 and FA1/15.1.2
too. Okay. And one thing I got to know from the Chennai name, there is a company
uh I would suggest all freshers to apply job here moate which is earlier called
CSS Corp. Okay. So they also hire
CCNA CNP guys and it's a good job. Uh they will also ask good interview
questions. The earlier name was CSS Corp and it's a good company to start your
career. They do not give very much high salary but the learning is very good.
Okay, because once you have one year, two years experience because directly you are getting your first job as a TAC
engineer because I told you if you get your job as a TC engineer it would be great in your career very soon within 2
3 years, four years you will be in Google, Apple or any good company. Okay. So try to check this company moate
technologies and keep applying jobs about mo and try to add uh this uh move
HR in your profile. Okay, like this you can see project manager HR talent acquisition
professional at Chennai Moji madam request. Okay. So just keep
sending these type of things and uh stay connected with the guys and they will
help you. Okay. And try to add engineer also do not directly approach HRs. Okay.
They have uh their own.
Okay. So that's the thing. And another company I would recommend you is I
Oopsex. IOPEX is also from uh no they have in
Chennai and Bangalore both location. Okay. So this is also a good company. I Oops. CCNA you search you can see yeah
technical support. So they will also hire. So just keep searching company name right CCNA CCNP networking whatever
keep adding multi. You can see you can so training media. Yeah technical
support engineer. This is the type of job and you can see they're asking about some Wi-Fi, some technical
customer experience little bit but they hire freshers also. Uh
okay. So keep applying. Okay.
Yeah. Don't worry if you guys even have 30 40 50 lakh package I can still
suggest you. Today I have counseledled one guy and he
has he's on around 75 lakh CTC and I was like
oh man so actually he was my senior uh very senior in Juniper networks he wants to
switch in cyber security as a uh IT director or something like that means he
wants to get into very high position.
Okay. So let's come back to Chennai location man.
So in Chennai we'll lost yeah Chennai host name FA002.1.2
to FA1/15.12 to FA01 uh 16 16.1.1
Okay, so we have done that. Let's copy Chennai router.
Okay, so I forgot to add that loop back as I mentioned but we can do later on
also. Okay, so my first goal you can see all the routers are connected with each
other. Okay. But if I try to ping this uh uh 12 any router like 16.1.1, if I ping
from di to 1611, this is the router. And if I ping 1611,
you can see I cannot ping. So the dots means the ping is not going.
Okay, ping is not happening. Okay, because I'm not connected to this
network. I cannot. Okay. So uh why uh let's create loop backs also uh because
loop backs they will be considered as like my testing interfaces because all
the IPS what we have given here these are completely van interfaces VAN cables
okay for end toend connectivity because in in future maybe in Delhi we have a
LAN network in Pune we will have a LAN network every location will have a LAN network so instead of creating LAN
network right now for testing we can create loop backs. So say interface loop
back zero 1 2 3 you can give any number and there is no limit you can create
millions of loop back for testing okay but I'm giving one only for testing
okay loop back you do not have to give no shutdown okay like in config 3 you create a loop
back that's it interface loop back that's it if you want more you can add loop back one loop
back two loop back Just keep giving the different different IPs. It is like you are creating some LAN networks. Maybe in
future you will be going to have. Right now this is only my VAN connectivity. So
this LAN networks I will add in future. Okay.
So right now in Pune I'm giving 2.1 we have added. Okay. So now Chennai.
Okay. So this is 3.1 it will overwrite
and this is 4.1. So we have added all the loop backs and if Di can ping loop backs means consider
the LAN ports. Okay. Can Dilly ping Chennai
3.1 4.1 2.1? This is the goal. Let's say 1926. Obviously, no, we cannot ping
because that's a different network and because all routers by default they know
routers by default knows only
their directly connected networks.
Okay, routers by default knows only their directly connected networks. Okay.
To know about other networks, to know about other networks, we have to do what? Routing. Okay. So, what is
routing? Okay. Forwarding of packets
from one network to another network. Okay. What is routing? Forwarding of
packets from one network to another network is known as routing.
Okay. one network packets going to another network that's called routing. Okay. And what we are doing today that's
called uh routing protocol. Okay. Routing protocols.
Okay. The first protocol is RIP which is routing information protocol.
Okay. So very easy. So once we have done with this now just go and find your
network ids very very easy guys please
do not blink eyes for next 5 minutes. Okay so
okay so show ip route connected then you see all your network ids right. So it
means these are my networks they are directly connected to me and you have to
share this to the world router RIP
and under here type all the IPs what you see 12 0 network
1300 0 network 1500 0 it means I'm
forwarding this all to other routers okay just add your networks that's it.
Copy configure terminal and paste here. All your networks you add in the rip.
Very very easy. Best protocol to learn. Okay. Not for the companies
but it's a good way to learn. Done. Deli is done man. Delhi is done. Let's go to
Pune. The same command. Show ip route connected. All networks. Go to Pune.
Pune. Pune. G. Okay. The router 134 1415 15 13 145 15
and 192 168 2.0 Oh very good G
config t paste done all done all done ka show IP
route connected we see again four networks
Kolkata 14 15 16 14 15 16 and 4.0.
Okay. So basically what will happen? Let me show in the last router.
Okay. So in the Chennai router I'm going to enable the simulation mode now. So
let me show you what is happening. And in the filter I enable RIP protocol.
Okay. Repable in Chennai. Let me write the config first. Show ip route uh
connected. So these are my networks for Chennai. So under Chennai
router RIP 12 15 16 12 15 16 and 3.0. So
whenever you add in the RIP what happens? So be up
configure I'm in the simulation mode. So remember when I paste here you can see
what is happening. So when I enter the packets when I enter all the networks my
router is creating some RIP packets. Okay RIP packets and these packets are
going to all the routers like this and this is all routers are doing with everyone.
So this is what we call dynamic routing automatically. So RIP comes under dynamic routing. So
dynamic protocols exchange route exchange packets or routing
information with each other. Very simple. So dynamic
protocol exchange routing information with each other.
Yeah. Simple. Dynamic protocols exchange routing information with each other. Okay. Means all the routers they are
exchanging each other information you can see and you can only see all the details in the simulation mode and make
sure you enable the filter of RIP only else you will see lot of packets. So
after every 30 seconds after every 30 seconds we are going to share this
update and do you know router RIP share the full routing table.
Okay, there are some drawbacks of RIP also.
Okay, that we have done that is RIP version one and there is a version two
also. Okay, so the like in RIP version one and there is a RIP version two
like version one like there is broadcast always.
Okay. RIP version two you have multiccast.
Okay. It supports subnetting means if you have different different type of subnetting
uh and RIP version one do not support subnetting means if any network is
divided into multiple parts RIP version one do not support. But I would suggest you if you want to configure version two
and it is always recommended to configure version two. So you should always add version two here and after
that you just make sure you add one other command no auto summary. So these two commands will enable the subnetting
thing because subnetting is pending. Okay. But uh if you have any like 12.1.1
okay but/30 like this okay right now maybe you do not understand this what I'm trying to
say but when I when you know subating
okay so but remember when we have subnetting you just have to add these two extra commands and this is much
better than version one because it will make version two and auto summary means support subnetting
Because auto summary means auto summarization but not a summary means do not do subnetting. Do not do
summarization yourselves. Okay, don't worry. Uh this command not a
summary I will teach you in EIGRP also. Okay.
So then I will explain this more. Okay. Version two. So just add version two. Version two. Okay. Uh that's it. And
you just go and configure in the RIP you just add extra later on also or earlier
that's your call. Okay. So we have made the protocol
version two. That's it. Done. Okay. So now all the RIP is done and how easy it
was just we added the network commands. Okay. And uh we just check show ip
route. Okay. Remember one thing what I did I check my directly connected and
these network ids I added in the router RIP and then I enter network network ID
then again network with the network ID okay just version two not a summary if
in case if you want to support subnet and all and this is what is recommended
now is able to ping all the LAN networks or let's see so you can see ping ping.
Let's ping 3.1, 4.1, and 2.1. 3.1. Yes,
I'm able to ping 4.1, I'm able to ping 2.1. Can you see the magic guys? So, the
magic is in my routing table now. Show ip route. And you can see all the routes
with R symbol is populated in my routing table. Can you see that R symbol?
Everywhere you see R, R. Okay, I'm not talking about the movie name. So, R R means uh this uh
RIP. Okay, here RIP. So, RIP is actually sharing all these details and the
routers are exchanging information with each other. Okay,
so that's that's the best okay this is the best best uh way to understand
dynamic routing. Again, RIP is not a best protocol. It is the worst protocol
but uh it is easy fun to learn basically it's super easy to learn just we enter
the network command that's it and there is no such things about RIP but if you go in my book maybe I have added a RIP
protocol that if we have a RIP here then you can study little bit theory from there
but no need nobody will ask you RIP protocol in interviews or even the exam Um
yeah, RIP we have not removed I think. Uh you can see here. So RIP version
okay open standard protocol you can configure in Cisco devices you can configure in Juniper devices. Okay it is
classful means do not support subnetting version one. Okay, it send all the
broadcast to all 255, 255, 255. Maximum we can add 16 routers in RIP. If you
have a company with more than 16 router, then you cannot reuse RIP. You have to
use another path. If you have multiple path, it will load balance for path.
Right? Now, if you see if I want to go to call kata, so I have multiple paths,
right? I can go from from this side also.
I can go from this side also. I can go to Kolkata from this side also.
Right? So I have multiple paths and whenever you have multiple paths
okay then what will happen? It will show you like this. Like if I want to go to 14 I have three paths. You can see this
is what we call load balancing. So whenever you see any network under this when you see three three V it means this
is called a load balancing. Whenever routing table shows you like these kind of entries they are load
balancing means to go to this location I have two paths three paths and for much
better clarity.
Okay. Okay. So you for better clarity you can say show ip route 1400 0. So you
can see I have three paths it will show you here this is the best command also for troubleshooting that I'm getting
with this with the rip protocol and the distance is 120. What is distance?
This is called ad value.
Uh so this is what we call AD value. Okay. So the higher the number lower the
trust. You can see static routing is one and RIP is 120. So it means if you
configure static routes and also you configure RIP on all routers then static
routing will show you you will not see RR because static routing has AD value
one which is much better than this. If you configure OPF and also you configure
RIP again you will see OPF routes because a lower number is better for my
routing protocol. If you configure EIGRP
OPF also RIP also then EIGRP will win because it has number 90 and static is
best one number okay because it is manual that's why
so RIP is used for smaller companies and the problem with RIP is that after
every 30 seconds after every 30 seconds RIP is sending routing table with each
other it is like wastage of bandwidth. Right? So do you think it is good that your router your network is working
properly but your router are sharing routing tables and you can see the size
of routing tables. Right now I have just four or five routers but if you have more routers then the size of your table
is increasing. Just imagine this all information of all routers are going
exchanging with each other after every every 30 seconds. So it is like wastage
of my bandwidth right. So this is why it is not considered as a good protocol.
And then we got some timers like after every 30 secondond we send routing
table. And in any case if any link is down okay it will wait for 180 second.
Suppose if any cable is down let me show you. Uh if I remove the 16 cable
okay and if I go to Delhi router that 16 network will not be removed from here.
You can see it is saying possibly down because router will wait for 180. Okay
let me wait for 3 minutes and if this will not come up after 1 minute means 3
+ 1 4 minutes I will remove this from routing table. That's called flush
timer. So invalid means I will make the route invalid for 3 minutes 180 second.
If a router do not give me updates then after uh 60 second extra 180 + 60 240
within 240 second I will flush the route from the table. It's again it's a problem because
nowadays you cannot wait for the route. Nowadays you want fast uh what we call
convergence. And this is a technical world called convergence. If your network is down, you simply remove from
the table. But RIP is like going to wait for longer time and it will be in my table for 4 minutes.
You can say still it is saying forcibly down. Okay. So when the root comes back.
Okay. So again whenever roots go you can see RIP is sharing whenever you get any
new update every time we are sending routing tables it's a problem.
Okay. So then we have version two which is like support subnetting. It send multiccast instead of broadcast
we send multiccast. Okay. So it is easy to configure. It is no design complexity. Less overhead.
Less overhead means the packet size to process the packets from router.
Router overhead is not too much. Less overhead. Router.
Okay. router has do not have to use his CPU memory lot of that's less overhead
means less consumption of uh processor and devices
disadvantage you cannot scale maximum 15 hop count means you can add up to 16
routers 15 hop count means pundra neighbors hop counts means 15 neighbors
one router your 15 neighbor means total 16 routers you can add slow convergence
as I shown you that if one network goes down it will wait for longer time okay
and this is how the syntax is mentioned you can see some this is the lab and
these are the commands also mentioned here okay and today I'm also sharing this with you all
okay so
okay so this is all the config. Make sure uh you
Okay, so these are the commands you guys can copy from here. Okay,
this is the file. Let me save this.
Okay. And when you open this pack, I'm also attaching the packet tracer file so that you do not have to waste time in
making the topology. But I would recommend you to make your own topologies. Okay. If you do not have
time, if you are a working professional, okay, then it's okay. You open the file. But
first thing you click on this button. This will reset all the routers from zero. Because when you open mine file,
the RIP will be already there. RIP is already configured because I have
saved now and copied in the nodes. So that's why you see all the configuration
in your packet tracer file. But when you open you want to do from the zero config
then please click this button. This is like power cycle devices and remove the
configuration.
What is the difference between multiccast and broadcast? I have shown you like uh in broadcast in like hub
practical that packet is going everywhere that's called broadcast and multiccast like you are forwarding
packets to the devices like where you have enabled the RIP. So
where we have given the network commands guys remember so in the delay router we have
given these neighbor commands network commands. So my RIP packet will only go
to those interfaces where we have given these IP. But suppose if you have any uh
uh ISP cable but where we do not add the and do not add that ISP network and all
because that's my van. Okay. So if you have any ISP network
here and if you do not put a network command of ISP then what will happen
that packets of RIP will not go to that area. Okay. So multiccast means wherever
you activate RIP they are the on those locations only packets will go not
everywhere. Broadcast means send to everywhere but multiccast means where you activate protocol there only the
packet will go. Okay. Activate the network command means find the
network and activate the RIP on those cables. You can see here one good
command show ip protocols right show IP protocol. So you can see
automatically it enabled the RIP on these interfaces because it will match
my networks. Okay, it will check. Okay, these networks are on these interfaces and my
RIP version two is activated on these cables.
After every 30 seconds, we send updates. Okay. So, you can see all the last
update we got from here, here and here. You can see. So the command is show ip
protocols.
Okay, let me add it.
Okay, show IP protocol, show IP route and all. And you can see I'm able to
ping everyone as I mentioned that I'm able to ping the loop back. So remember the loop backs are even if you configure
a LAN network in future you just remove the loop back and configure your LAN network. That's it. Okay. So it will
just make it easy for you that you do not have to worried about our LAN switch which is computers and very uh focus
with the with your focus uh like you will be able to do the routing labs.
Okay.
Yes, guys. Any question?
Sir, what is loop back or when we use loop back?
Yeah, three times I have already trained you. Why don't you understand? Tell me
what is the main reason you are not able to understand. Let let's do your root uh analysis.
What is the problem? What do you think? What is loop back?
back. What is loop back?
Okay. In the last class we have also covered, right? Have you had watched that video?
Okay. In which class we have done loop back.
You are not revising like you know Hindi little bit.
So contact support team and ask them can you please give sir Hindi videos.
Okay. Okay. Live is English only. Okay. But you can watch in videos in Hindi.
Yes sir. Okay. Try to Okay. Let me tell you again. Loop
back. So see Di. So in DI we create LAN network, right?
But I don't want to waste my time right now. Create LAN network and add computers. So loop back is like
alternate to LAN network. So for my testing I create loop back. Okay.
Configure terminal interface loop back zero. And you can create as many loop
back. Interface loop back zero. And then I give IP 192 168.1.1
like this. Okay. So
network this is the same way we configure LAN network and this is the same way we configure loop back
right so when you check show ip interface brief you check your LAN cable
also like this and you see your loop back also like this right so it is like
I'm not wasting my time to create a LAN network very quickly I created a LAN
network once my all my VAN activity is fine. In future you can add all LAN
networks Hindi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata. Okay.
Okay. Good. One question sir. Yes. Good evening sir. Set the password
sir. Hello. Yeah Shabbaz just hold on a look. Yeah Shabbaz. Yes sir. So how to set the
password and remove it in the router in the uh in Cisco?
Yes. Cisco router. Uh there are two ways. One is like you give here one command uh enable password
and you type a password like Cisco 1 2 3 like this. But the problem with this password if anybody's logging in the
router anybody can see from the show running config and anybody can read your
password right.
Yes. Yes. Okay. So, this is a good password but it is not encrypted. Then Cisco made in
after enable password they made a enable secret which is much better password and
then you give a Cisco 1 2 3 whatever hash dollar whatever. Okay. Let me give
simple one. Okay. So now if I try to check in the running
you can see both passwords are set right but enable secret is like encrypted
nobody can copy and even if you copy and do exit from here nobody can paste that
password will not work because that is just encryption but your actual password
is Cisco but uh the router has encrypted in the encryption which Five means MD5
encryption. MD5. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
Yeah. Look. Now tell me sir. Uh at the time of uh the start of the class sir we
had created two uh networks one with hub and one with switch
and we have connected laptops and this computers with hubs and switches and then we have connected the these two
networks with the router. Mhm. So we have given the IP to the uh this computers and all and routers also
but switch and hub we have not given the IPs. Yeah we have not started yet. We can
configure switches with VLANs. Lot of stuff will come. Okay I'll show you but right now as of
now do not configure just learn some routing first then switching then we
combine them both and then we go to the CCNP topics. Okay sir. No I what happened with me
now? I have missed three four class classes. Okay. Some personal stuffs. So I thought that
I have missed those things. No no no. Switching topics we have not started. Okay sir. I will revise through the
recorded videos. Sure. Sure. Then I will come to know. Okay sir. Thank you sir.
Hello. Hello. Yes. One question sir. uh in real in
real world if you suppose we are going to uh reset the password or what is
called upgrade. So uh as you uh teach us uh the last command uh write
right command. So the write command basically does uh all this current uh
configuration we are copying to the startup. Yes. Am I right? Yeah. Copy to startup. This command and
right command has same meaning.
Okay. Shabbaz are you there
guys? I'm audible. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Okay. Shabbaz are you there or? Yes. Audible.
I think his mic is not working maybe right now.
Please don't worry guys if I say next time we
will do subnetting and if I do not do subnetting then don't kill me man.
I know when to teach my actually my pen tablet is uh not charged when I started
the class. So I thought let me cover something else and let's do revision. So it's your benefit only if I'm uh going
slow it is your benefit only right loop back testing with two router we need at least one physical layer IT yes satish
correct one physical cable virtual LAN is called loop back no
virtual LAN is VLAN that's a different topic loop back is like a virtual
interface VLAN is like different thing like uh you can create different
different groups. Groups are virtual lands and loop back means virtual interface.
Uh you mentioned the RIP is not in the syllable. Does it mean we need to prepare it for season exam? Just no no
Abdul this RIP is just to play with the routers how dynamic routing is working
right. When you start EA, GRP and OPF then you feel like commands are similar
just we need to learn little bit theory extra. Okay.
So where we can use RIP in real scenario we do not use RIP nowadays in real
scenarios. Okay very old where we can use RIP some have you heard
about this company TP link guys?
Yes sir. But TP link has a RIP protocol only.
What sir? Because their routers are very cheap now. So they do not want to add.
So I have this router at my office and all they if uh you can add static
routing default routing but only one protocol works on in these routers that is RIP. I think somewhere it is written
dynamic routing but yes this router support only rip.
Okay. Okay. So there are mostly TPLink routers, Dlink routers means the small series routers they support one dynamic
routing RIP OPF uh routers OPF and all these routers are
like Cisco, Juniper like HP good companies routers they
support OPF, BGP and all.
Okay, then let's close for the day guys. It's 12. Let's see you guys tomorrow. Bye-bye.
Okay, sir. Bye. Okay, sir. Cheers. Thanks. Thanks.

