
So now the zoom meeting to custom streaming something. So
now you can see here go live.
Okay. So you can see here schedule stream. Okay.
That I'm going live at 9:30 p.m. something. So I've already created. So you can see there is a stream key and
there is a stream URL. Okay. So copy that. Go to that browser stream URL. Copy.
Okay. Copy the stream URL. And let's copy the stream key.
use strong.
Okay. So, stream key added. Uh, now
we are going to enter the YouTube link. Full HD standard
full HD go live. Okay, this is how we do YouTube live
sessions.
Okay. So,
so hi everyone. Hello.
You guys are live with me on YouTube. Say hi to YouTube.
Great. Uh so we have around 70 guys in the class. I think uh few guys are
joining. Okay. So let me share my screen and then we will start the class. Okay.
Right.
Okay. Hello. Hello. Hi everyone. Uh so let's
start. So wait
just hold on. Okay. So hi everyone. Uh so welcome to
CCNA CCNP batch. Okay. So let me give introduction about this batch and about
myself also. If anybody don't know.
Okay. So this is going to be live batch and this is what we call CCNA
plus CCNP and RC.
Okay. So this is CCNA plus CCNP and RC. Uh, I hope uh
Okay. So, CCNA. So, first of all, we are going to start with the very very basic
uh course which is called CCNA. Okay. It's not that basic but yes, I still
call this this is going to be uh the basic uh program. Okay. So, where you
understand about network fundamentals. Okay. So, if you heard about network
fundamentals like uh OSI model. Okay. So we will be going to learn
subnating. Okay. So we are going to learn about how
to configure router for the first time. Okay. So how to configure a router for
the first time. Then we will learn about routing. Okay. Because router does
like how routers talk to each other. They do routing. Okay. So we are going to learn routing part.
After that we are going to learn about switches. Okay. In the switches we learn about switching.
Okay. We learn about switches.
Okay. And after that uh there are few topics which will be asked in interviews. Okay. like uh in routing we
have a topic called OSPF.
Just hold on. These notifications are disturbing me.
Okay, I think that's better. Hm.
Camera. Huh? So to set.
Okay.
H. Okay. So switch OPF we are going to
learn in in CCNA we are going to learn about overview. Okay. After that we
learn about topics like NAT which is very very important topic in CCNA uh which is called a network address
translation. Then we learn about ACL. Okay. What is ACL? Access control list
like how to block websites, how to block anyone from accessing the website like
Facebook, Gmail and all. Okay. But we are going to learn in the router. Okay. So CCN and CCNP what we are learning
here?
Okay. So what CCNA CCNP we are learning here. So they are completely on Cisco
routers and switches.
Okay. So but if you learn the program very well okay if you understand the course if you clear the quiz okay so
what we are going to offer you juniper course for complimentary
okay so there is a program JNCA okay which is worth appro like if you
take training in outside the market I think it's around uh 30,000 to 40,000 training but um yeah videos I'm not sure
but yes so basically we are not charging anything if you join this batch we will
give you JNCIA okay after end of the batch okay so it means when you learn
CCNA CCNP from me and when you learn from juniper course from the videos what
we will give you then you will have a better resumeum so you can say that this is me this is CCNA I know you will write
okay I know CCNA topics you know about CCNP then you write about CCNP topics
and then you can add JNCIA also So this will be your resume and you are
going to write all these skills all these skills you are going to add in
your resume that's why you are joining this course. Okay. So whatever topics you learn try
to always update your rum once a week or twice a week and whatever you learn like
suppose in the first uh few classes we are going to learn about OSI model
subnetting. So these topics you should add in your resume. Okay. If you already
added then it's good. Okay. So now let's talk about so many
many people get confused and they ask my admission counselors also. Okay. So what
is the difference between NRC and encore? There is another module which is called encore.
Okay. So I would recommend if you are not on tight budget then go for all CCNA
CCNP and RC and encore. Okay. But some people want to learn firewall that's why
we made a combo another combo CCNA plus CCNP and RC
plus firewall like Paul Alto firewall. Okay. Because if we add all the courses
then the length of the course will be very much also the fee would be much
than what is currently. Okay. So that's why what we are giving you. So the step
one the step one just learn this CCNA plus an RC with me. So why an RC?
Because I'm taking an RC this time. Okay. In some batches I take CCNA plus CCNP and core. In some batches I take
CCNA plus CCNP and RC. So CCNA is all about mix topics like these topics what
I told you here. So these are going to be the mixed topics in CCNA and in RC you are going to learn much much in
detail about OPF about BGP about MLS about DMVPN
okay and little bit of like other EIGRP or some basic other topics okay but
these going to be the four five very very important in detail courses okay so we are going to spend if you talk about
ours because uh people call months okay the course is 2 months 3 months but I'm
telling you the number of hours we are going to deliver okay I'm going to deliver so approximately this batch is
going to be 100 plus hours okay so some days we will do 2 hours
okay sometimes we will do 3 hours also okay because some topics are very
lengthy okay I have to stretch till 3 hours
okay So that's why just hold on I'm coming. I'll take your
questions also. Don't worry. And if anybody is typing in the chat, I
am not reading right now.
Okay. Okay. So now we got to know whether you
go for CCNA encore, NRC it does not matter. At the end of the day you have
to clear both exams. Okay. So once you clear both NRC plus encore okay then you
can become CCNP certified as well. Okay. So don't worry about okay that I should
go for N core or NRC. Okay. So you are in the right uh place whether you learn
an RC. Whether you learn encore it does not matter. Okay. So encore has lot of
topics like CCNA like because CCNA also has a lot of topics and core also has a
lot of topics but encore and an R CCNA they are not in very very much detail
detail. You do not learn OPF in detail. You do not learn BGP MSDMV and EGRP in detail.
You only learn in detail in the NRC module. Clear everyone raise hand if you
understand this okay great even though only one guy
raised so I said great because we can't force anyone to raise
hand every time yeah okay
so now let's talk about
so the to so the schedule of this batch okay what is going to be the schedule
right now it's Monday and Tuesday so why I'm not teaching 5 days let me
tell you so maybe the first because this is a combo CCNA plus
RC right CCNP and RC so CCNA you will be able to digest you will be able to
understand in 5 days also but once we finish our CCNA topics then we will jump
to an RC then it would be very difficult for you to learn
5 days a week. Okay. So that's why I keep it very simple Monday, Tuesday. Okay. Sometimes
if we if I do not take any class on Monday or Tuesday because of some issue. Okay. Then I can take that class on
Wednesday or Thursday. Be little flexible guys. Okay. So but yes classes will be Monday, Tuesday or if I do not
take any class on Tuesday or Monday then we will cope up in the Wednesday. Okay.
If I have to take any extra class, maybe if you some of you are not able to understand the topic, maybe I can take
extra classes also. Okay? Or maybe I can ask someone to deliver that uh on behalf
of me. But yes, Monday and Tuesday the timing will be 9:30 p.m. So that most of
working professionals will be able to join.
Puja this is uh around 5 to 6 months course. So obviously uh we are
putting a lot of effort. So obviously this is not uh free. Uh somebody is
asking is this free? Uh nothing is free in this world if you are good at something. Yeah. Great. I'm just honest.
Okay. So it's like this is job for me. So obviously we have to charge uh to run our company. But yes, YouTube has a lot
of content. I think 30% of my CCNA CCNP content is also available on YouTube.
But if you need 100% yes then the live batches are there to attend. Okay. So
Monday, Tuesday 9:30 p.m. 5 to 6 months minimum uh 4 months minimum is 4 to 5
months but it can go to 6 months. And if you do not attend this batch this time my next batch will be in April
2024. I'm just telling you honestly. So if you have time, if you feel like yes,
I can attend this batch, join this batch. It is going to be awesome because by April 2024, you will be able to
finish this courses CCNA plus CCNP and RC. Okay. So now let me tell you the
CCNA, CCNP and RC is not the only courses to become a network
engineer. Okay. So uh how many of you want to see the road map how the future is going to be for network engineers?
raise hand in camera actually
they did CNN and core I think that's why okay great okay so let me give you the
road map
they
It's going to be very simple plain English. Plain English. Okay.
uh weekend batch is not available right now but yes we do have other trainers but if you want to attend my batch
Monday Tuesday right now okay so let me give you the road map
road map let's see what is the road map for network engineers in 2024
okay see right now you are here and you are learning CCNA then it is going to be
CCNP okay it is going to be NRC or encore
Okay. Do not see you have to do an RC and core both if
you want to get certified in CCNP. Okay. So that's the whole point.
Okay. So after that you are going to learn about firewalls.
So firewalls like there are a lot of firewalls but right now you understand that I have to learn firewalls. Okay. So
this is going to be the first milestone then second and after that you can enter into the cloud world. Okay. And there is
additional program like SD van you can attend here. After that you can go for
the cloud courses like 500 and 700. There are pretty amazing
courses we have. This is to learn about cloud security and after that you are
going to learn about various technology which is going to be in demand that is
called network as a service NAS and then SAS.
Okay. And maybe people can go for NAS and SES and also can move to the network
automation.
Okay. And here we call high paid network engineer. Highly paid network engineer. Okay. So
here if you are in India it is going to be with experience you can go up to 50 lakhs more than that also but with
experience you can't become get 50 lakhs as a fresher. But yes after four five years if you attend the full road map
you will be on very high package. you will be on higher salaries and in USA it would be more than two uh 200,000
150,000 to 200,000 okay so this is going to be the road map if you want to become
the network engineer in right now okay so in in uh what we call 2023 and 2024
okay there are lot of courses I cannot write everyone but I'm just giving the basic fundamental
Okay, there is no AI. There is no AI, machine learning, data science. Okay,
they are not related to this field. So do not add anything in this. Okay, it's like
uh they are completely different tracks. If you want to learn DevOps, we do have DevOps, we have cyber security. We have
lot of courses. You can check with team. that I'm talking about specifically for
the network engineers, network security engineers, cloud engineers, cloud security engineers. Okay. So this is
going to be the road map. So right now you are here. Okay. So you guys are going to learn about CCNA, CCNP and RC.
So once you finish NP and RC then you can join encore plus firewall. After
that you'll learn about Azure S500 and within just one or two years you will be
having the best knowledge.
Okay. So there is so we are engineers and so we will be giving you all the
latest knowledge what is there in the market.
Okay. So, just five minutes overview if you don't know me.
Okay. So this is me uh Tul Sharma. Uh so basically
uh I started my career in 2011 uh after graduating after engineering. Okay. So I
got lot of certifications like CCNA, CCNP, Juniper certifications. uh then I
got about some basic firewalls, newbie hub. So means a lot of certification but
the popular ones are CCNA, CCNP, JNCIA and JNCIP. Okay. So I'm training people
from last 11 12 years. Okay. I have trained almost thousands of students
almost. Okay. So I have trained lot of students international also and uh so I
started my career with this company called Ariscent. Okay. which is now called CAP Germany. So I worked there
for quite long as a network engineer and my work was this OPF, BGP, MPs, all
these things. Okay. I was in South Africa, I was in Middle East for my on-site projects. So I was in Jonasburg,
I was in uh Dubai also. So I traveled two three countries, not too many. Uh
but yes uh uh because of this job I visited many places.
So then I joined Tata Consultancy Services. Uh then I worked as a network
administrator but after one year approx I switched to corporate trainer. I have delivered lot of corporate trainings in
the TCS and uh trained almost 3,000 plus students or what we call fresher fresher
students and experienced students in TCS. Then I worked in Apple as a network
engineer. Okay. I was sitting in Gura office for uh some time and I was
handling their OPFBGP troubleshooting implementation projects. Okay. And then
I went to Juniper Networks as advanced stack engineer. So advanced stack engineer. What is stack engineer?
Technical assistant center. These are I would say these are good paying jobs not
highpaying jobs. These are pretty good paying jobs. uh because if you suppose
you work for any company and if you do not resolve any issue you escalate that
issue to Cisco.
So if you do not resolve issue you go to Cisco and they their engineers solve your problem. So those engineers are
called TAC engineers. Okay. So that's why I said that I worked in advanced T.
So advanced stack team was like global escalation team like L1, L2, L3. So L3,
L4 something L3. So we are on the top level. I have heard a lot of uh um like
uh we try to handle lot of escalations and there were so amazing team lot of
people I have not seen anyone in Juniper networks like average guy. So mostly
everyone is extraordinary. So when I worked with Juniper, I got to know okay yeah this is the type of knowledge I
want in life and trust me getting into Juniper getting into Cisco getting into
any good company is like you proud of yourself that you have achieved
something and in this batch obviously I cannot give you my 11 years but yes I
can give my knowledge what I have gained in those 11 years. Okay. So approx uh so
I think within 5 6 months I'll be sharing the topic knowledge plus my industry experience what we learned and
all. Okay. Obviously this batch is specific to Cisco. I cannot teach you
Juniper. I cannot teach you. Okay let's go and deep dive into Nexus. Okay. But yes as I promised. So if you attend this
batch very well we will give you Juniper videos for complimentary. Okay. And if you are good at CCNA you are good at
CCNP. If you are good at juniper, if you learn little bit of firewalls, you will be the best guy in the market.
Because if you just stuck yourself to CCNA, CCNP it is like okay you are in
some companies you are safe but you have to update yourself with the time.
This life is all about learning. Okay. If you stop learning, your growth is
stuck, right? Both guru again.
Okay. Oh,
Yes, to get your CCNP certification you have to clear both exam. Okay. So any
questions guys? Uh if you have any relevant question related to the course related to anything before we start uh
because we have lot of time don't worry I'm not in hurry to finish this batch.
This is the only good thing. There are a lot of good things but this is the most important good thing that
I'm not running to finish the course. Okay.
Uh you guys can uh raise hand in camera then I can unmute you.
Okay. Gorov Gorov Gorov Gorov. Yes. Gorov
it's a mix of it's a mix of like 70 see only lab is also not going to clear help
us to clear interviews right suppose if I teach you OPF lab only but if the
interviewer is asking you okay tell me what is going inside that packet. Okay
so theory plus lab both are important. Okay. Yeah. What next question?
Okay. My next question solution designing regarding
yes definitely. So his question is all about
uh designing networks and all obviously see that's uh a different track which is
called design professional CC design professional but yes I'll teach you
after the end of the batch you will understand okay why we place two routers in a company okay so let me show you my
screen question I'll come back just hold
So okay now one when you understand when
you finish this batch how good networks you will be able to configure. So first of all very ba after mid of the batch
not even completion of the batch you know you will come to know okay why we have two routers in a company why we
have switches okay why all switches are connected to some core switches
okay so what are switches where we connect computers okay so we connect office laptops computers with the
switches and Wi-Fi right so we can connect a Wi-Fi device access point and
this laptop laptop, mobile, phone, they can connect with this Wi-Fi and that Wi-Fi device is connected to switches.
So these all switches connected to some core switches. Okay, like this multiple
links so that if one connection fail a cable down
okay you have multiple connections between switches and switches.
Okay, and these switches are then connected to routers. So this one router
we call this gateway also. So routers are called as a gateway also because you
are going outside your network that's why this is what we call gateway
going outside is called gateway. Okay. So now this router will be connected with ISP. So like ISP 1 and this will be
connected with ISP ISP 2 ISP 1 ISP 2. Okay. What is ISP?
Internet service provider. So after half of the batch you will be able to do this
lab without any support because I'll be finishing going to finish these topics
very well. Okay. So just you need to revise your content again and again and
for that we will be giving you recordings of every live class. Okay. So up recordings you will get recordings of
the class and every time you go and revise the topics you do not have to worry about notes. I will share all the
notes. Okay. So let me show you the lab access
what you all going to get. Lab access.
You do not have to install anything in your laptop. You just open the website. You go and login with your credentials.
Okay. You will get username, password very soon. I think if you have not got it, my support team is going to share
that password with you very soon. Sign in. So you can see lot of labs. So
what is the best thing about networkings? You get a lot of labs here. Okay. I have seen lot of local centers.
First of all, 90% people they do not give labs. Okay. And if if some
companies are giving lab access, they just give one topology. So what do you mean? And what do I mean by one
topology? Suppose they have one lab.
Okay. Okay. So this is the lab I was talking about. You can see we have the same design.
Yes. So this batch is going to help you to
understand these things. Okay. So you can see we have one router here and this is connected to ISP 1.
This is connected to ISP 2. So we have some computers here which we are going to understand VLANs and all. So switch.
So this is a switch. This is another switch. Switches are connected to core switches. And there is a double link
here. What is called ether channel link bundling. So we are going to learn about link bundle. We are going to learn about
OPF. So this is I'm talking about the CCNA level of topics we are going to
learn. But after that we are going to learn a lot of advanced topics also. Okay. So let me show you. So this is one
of the lab and we have like almost 100 plus labs like this. You can go and
practice any lab in our labs. Okay. So let me show you another guide.
So the best part in networkings that some labs are very very powerful
uh like if you are at routing suppose and if you are learning about my BGP classes
you can see lot of labs.
Yeah. Okay. So in every lab you will see some
content. Additionally see CCNA
CCNA I'll be uh giving you the labs obviously but you have to prepare for
that labs. But in CCNP I'll be giving you lab guide also because CCNA is all about small small lab small small
topics. I'll be creating notes with you.
Okay. So these are going to be the notes. Okay. So you will be getting all these notes. I'll be creating in front
of you. I am not giving you some old notes. I'll be creating all the notes in
classes. So you can see we learn about network fundamentals.
Okay. So we learn about uh uh IP addressing. We learn about router configuration. So
okay. So you can zoom in also. You can open the you can see all the router. This is the
model number and all. Okay. How to login into the router. What cable we have to use and all. And how we are going to
access the router. We will use packet tracer. Initially we will give you lab access networking lab access also
commands. Okay. We have shared all the commands what commands you have to enter in a router so that you become a proper
hands-on experience. You will get the proper hands-on experience.
This is what we have to configure and lot of topics are in detail like ARP. So
how ARP work? So who is expert by the way?
Expert with very advanced knowledge or the expert who who is expert in basics.
What do you think? Expert basics
topics. So the real expert is someone who understand basic in advanced level.
Clear? So we have to learn about all these all these ARP. How actually ARP works? How
the ARP functions? Okay. So what is going inside the ARP? So we are going to
learn lot of things about troubleshooting about lot interview preparation questions. Okay what is TTL
because and lot of people ask okay how trace route works. So we are going to
discuss lot of interview questions. We are going to discuss about lot of
headers also like TCP header UDP header. So totally and we are going to learn
these kind of big labs also as I mentioned. So I'll be sharing this all configuration.
So I do not have to say anything now. I think that's enough. You trust me and I
trust you that you are going to study little. Okay. So if you do not study very well then my efforts are not going
to help you. Okay. So 50% is my effort, 50% is yours and 100% success on you.
Yeah. So syllabus is too lengthy. Uh so just
go and check Cisco website. Mostly everything what Cisco is telling what uh
we have in the CNA CN penars. I think we will be covering more topics.
Some topics are not in the syllabus. I'll be covering that. So the whole agenda of this batch is to give you the
right knowledge and this is why I'm here. Okay. So
very basic class today because uh it's not going to be very advanced today. But
uh let's start with the very very basic network fundamentals.
Okay. So, uh, so what is network? Like if two or more
computers are connected together, that's a network, right? So, let me show you.
Okay. Uh yeah. So how so like suppose if
two computers are connected computer A and computer B. Okay. So that they are
connected with wireless or wire. Okay. We call this wireless or wide.
Okay. So this is also a network. Okay. So what is network?
What is network?
Okay. Okay. When two or more computers When two or more computers
are connected are connected together
is known as network. Very simple, right? Network. When two or more computers are
connected together is known as network. Okay. But what is
networking now? Okay. So this is network. What is networking?
Sometimes very small definitions we ignore and when interviewer ask we get
stuck. Yes. Even though you know but sometimes you are not able to say anything in
interviews because you know but maybe somehow you are not able to explain because you are trying to recall the
bookish language. Bookish what we call the complex lines. Chhatur lines
Chhatur 3ds if you guys know. So what is networking?
Networking is the same thing when two or more computers are connected together is known as network. And when they share
when they share a data and resources when they share data and resources
is known as networking. Is known as networking. Very
simple, right? When they share data and resources, when they share.
Okay. So, just add share here. Okay. So, when they share data and resources is
known as networking.
Okay. Very simple. So now if I show you the
practical directly because I believe in little theory, little practical and this
is how you learn. Okay. So what we are going to learn now how we connect two computers and I'll be going with the lab
access because laptop practical you can do practical but I'll be see
there are two tools one you can install packet tracer but I will explain packet tracer later on okay but now don't focus
on yeah so you will be getting a lab
obviously when okay so you will be getting some like
two PC lab something.
Yeah. So you can see so we want to connect two computers. Okay. So you can
see this this lab already have two computers. So this is Windows machine 2.
This is Windows machine 3 and this is connected to as normal switch. Okay. So
now I'm going to turn on right click start
and right click start.
Just hold on.
Yes. Okay. So now you can see
computer. So there are two computers, Windows 2 and Windows 3. And if you see here,
so these are already connected to some switches. So we will not configure router right now because this is your
first practical. Okay. So just click on this machine.
OMG Windows 7 inside that system. Right. So I'll be going to enter the password.
By the way the password is let me write down here when you get the lab access. So this is going to be the password for
all my Windows machines. Test 1 2 3. Okay. So write it down somewhere if you
don't forget. test 1 2 3 and T is in the upper case. Okay. So you get this lab
access for 6 months. So try to utilize and after that also I'll teach you how
to configure these labs in your laptop. Okay. Uh not in between. Okay. Not after
the batch. So beach setup. Okay. So our focus is not about
software. Our focus is purely learning. That's why we are giving you lab access. Okay. uh because a lot of people what
they say okay we will teach you CCNS CCNP okay so uh you have to install
software in your laptop the problem when you install in your laptop you do not have the high RAM so now suppose if
window machine is taking 4 GB approx this is also 4 GB Linux also take 2GB so
just to run some basic practicals sometimes you need 16 GB laptop or more
than that that's why we understand that many many students they have only 4GB
laptop that's why we are not asking you to buy the 16 GB 32GB laptop are you
getting my point that's why we invested a lot of money in buying the servers and
you are doing that labs on our uh those very high powerful labs
so P machine so the password is test 1 2 3 okay so now you can see they both are
connected with some cable okay so we'll discuss about this cabling and all but right now as a normal lay man
normal as a normal IT engineer how to computers are connected so this is
Windows machine I have I'll go to you can see the first machine now I go to
the second machine
so this is Windows E.
Okay. So now what we have to do how these two machines will talk to each other when they are in the same subnet.
So what is this subnet? Subnet means a group of IPs when they belong to same
network that's called subnet. Okay. So we'll discuss about this IP. But you can
see very simple thing. 12 192 168.2 192
16. So as a normal guy you can understand. Okay they are in the same network. Okay we'll discuss but right
now they are in same network. 1.2. See you can see the first three groups
are same only the fourth group is different. So you will understand this in the subnetting class. But in this
machine now I go here and say a very simple shortcut
ncpa. Cpl. Okay. So this is a shortcut to go to
your network connections in Windows. Okay. directly go to your network connections or just go to control panel
and just go to this network and sharing center go to change adapter settings
okay but the shortcut I told you ncpa cpl okay so you come down to this point
go to properties in the first machine you can see which IP address we are
talking about IP v4 or IPv6 IP v4 right now but we will learn IPv6 as
Go to properties. Now click here and give IP. So this IP is called static IP.
IP. This IP we call this static IP. Okay. So do we have gateway right now?
Please go and check lab. So do we have router? Yes. But I have I asked you to
turn on the router yet? No. Okay. So router is not on. So no
need to configure default gateway. But when your router is on, then you have to give the router IP address like 192
1621.1. But I'm I'm going to skip this part because I just want to connect my
two computers. Click okay. No need of DNS right now because you are not going to internet. DNS is required when you go
to internet. Okay. In local network, DNS is not required normally. Okay. Close.
So once you give the IP, how you verify? Go to command prompt and type here IP
config. Okay. So you can see I have assigned the
IP address. Yes or no guys. Okay. And what is this subnet mask?
Automatically this will come because this is class C address. We'll discuss about class A, B, C, something. But
right now you can understand this subnet mask tell you that this network belongs to some group. Okay. So you can see how
many 255 3 255 it means the first three portion is the network ID. Okay. So now
tell me 192 168 1. Okay. Now second machine will also have the same 192
1681. And this is how they understand they are in same network. Okay. Now go to the second machine. Here also we go
and type ncpa.cpl. We go here properties.
IPv4 properties I'm 192 1681.3
and don't say do point okay I have seen lot of people and even in interviews they say sir 192.168.1.3
man it's dot
okay okay close so now two machines are connected you verify again IP config
Okay. So you can see 1.3 1.2. So both machines are connected.
How we verify that they are now connected? Tell me guys
how we come to know they are in same network.
Chitra and core is a different module. Once you finish the CCNA and RC, you can then join in core batch also. Okay. So
this is CCNA, CCNP and RC. And don't worry somehow whether you take NA and
core whether you take NA and RC does not matter. You have to learn encore and RC
both at the end of the day because when you give encore and RC or encore plus
any other module then only you become CCNP certified. Okay. And in now CCNA is
not mandatory to give CCNP exam directly you can write CCNP exam.
Okay.
So we verify both computers with ping. Okay. Okay, we go to the first machine.
So my IP is 1.3 1.2. The second machine IP is 1.3. So I go to first machine and
type here ping. So what is ping? By the way, ping stand for packet.
So ping also has a full form which is called packet internet grapher. Grapper
packet internet grapper. So it's basically a tool tool. This is a tool
which is used for testing which is used to test that other device is connected
to me or not. So it work on one protocol called ICMP. We will discuss that all
those things in advance. Okay. But as of now you just understand ping is a tool
to check the connectivity. The ping ping is a tool to check the connectivity.
Okay. So now I say ping 192 168.1
3. So you can see I can ping that machine right here. They go. So I can
see here 190 to 168 and I'm getting a ping
response. So you go lost is 0%. How many packets lost? 0% loss because we we sent
four packets packet. We sent four packets. We
received four also. It means by default Windows machine is sending four packets
and we got four replies. But if you want to send more then you can type ping - n. How many packet?
Let's say 10 packets I want to send. Ping- N 10 192 168 1.3 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.
Okay, we got and if you want to do the continuous ping, okay, if you want to do the continuous
ping, then you can type here hyphen t.
Okay, so some if I'm not writing in these notes, so I would recommend you to buy a notebook and try to copy that.
Okay, so this is called continuous ping hyphen t
Okay. So now it means me both the machines are
connected to each other, right? So how about if I share a file that's not related to networking my CCNA but still
I can show you uh suppose uh you have a folder
Yeah. So let's say simple pictures. So we want to share this folder with the third uh second computer. I click here
share with the advanced settings.
Uh turn on network discovery all those things.
Okay. Turn off password protected sharing for some time. So I just go here share advanced sharing
again. Okay. I have to make this uh
Okay, this is okay. We can go to properties sharing.
Yeah, you can see share this folder. Okay, share this folder. Apply. Okay.
You can see here I want to add here everyone.
Okay. Let me share again what I have done. Okay. It's not
okay. I think uh
let me share another I think it's a pictures folder. Okay. So let's create a folder here
at okay and I just uh paste this picture here.
Okay.
Okay. So now I share this folder share
share with specific people. Go to everyone and add. So just give a uh read
permission is okay. Share. Okay. Now the folder is shared. Okay. So now the
folder is shared. How to access this from another computer? You just here type it forward slash. I think this is
forward slash only. Okay. So 192 168 IP address of the first computer. Okay.
Enter. So now you can see there is a folder at and now you can copy this picture from that machine. Right. And I
can paste in my C drive. So what I did here networking.
Yes. So what is network? When two or more computers are connected together
that's a network. But when we share data and resources when we share files and
all this is what we call it networking clear everyone now
network and networking great okay so how big network would be like network so
first of all we have LAN networks van networks right and some in book language
you get pan man lot of networks right so it could be a small network. It could be
a big network but the biggest network on the planet right now is submarine cable
map. So the biggest network in the world is submarine cables. So submarine cables
are under sea fiber cables. Okay. So this is all over the world. Okay. So not
even a single country uh like is connected to internet nowadays, right?
All the countries have internet now. Okay. So you can see if I zoom in about my country.
Okay. So I'm in India. So you can see there are lot of submarine cables. And if anybody wants to learn about these
cables, you just have to click on that single cable. So now you can see this is the biggest cable 20,000 kilometer and
these who are the owners all ISPs in the world they have invested amount like AEL
from India, Pakistan, UAE, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Tata because of all countries
you are accessing internet. Okay.
So this is what we call submarine cables. And and if I show you this is
the first cable in India. First what we call first submarine cable by
India. It's by Bharat Lanka cable system. Okay. Uh this is from BSNL
325 kilome. Okay. So these are called landing stations 2T coran and all. Okay.
So these are called landing points and this is how so mostly if you see in
India all the connectivities are in Mumbai because all they are under C
cables. Okay. So uh explore this website today. I would recommend you highly
if you really want to gain knowledge. Okay. I can show you the direction but you have to explore a lot of things
yourself. Now I have given you the submarine cable. Okay. Now it is your call how much you want to learn. So now
you can see there is a cable called I2 IC. This cable is actually cable
because now how I got to know
okay it's not written in CCNP books that okay ATLE has this cable so when you
explore things you actually get more knowledge so now if you go for ATAL
interview and they say okay yes sir I know about yeah ital also has a I2I cable network from Chennai to Singapore
and the I will be little impressed right at least you know about ital submarine cables
clear everyone so that that's the whole thing so when you learn you have to
holistically learn it's not about you learn only CCNA CCNP and I'm I became the god of networking no
CCNA CCNP is just like 10th and plus two in India
okay to pass by
plus two it's like you are just taking school education CCNA CCNP is like that
okay but yes those that base knowledge is also very very important because that's create the foundation of
networking so today we learned about how to computers connect to and what is network
what is networking okay so and we have other devices as
well and nowadays internet is important because all my home networks, offices,
everyone is connected to network, right? Why internet is important? What do you think? Internet traffic will increase or
decrease?
Obviously increase, right? Okay. And let me show you
Actually, I created a uh what we call that's my for my uh
something different pitch deck shark tank pitch deck. Okay. So, I'm
just showing you some important thing what's going in the market.
there again.
Yeah. Yeah. So you can see here DevOps market is also uh right now it's 9 billion and
it is going to increase by almost double in 2020. So this is the cloud market in
the world. Right now we are at $483 billion and we this is how we understand
what is the future of this technology right so you can see cloud technologies are going way way beyond and it's going
to be bigger and bigger it is going to be four times bigger than
in 2030 so again the global network support will increase global firewall
market right now we are at 3.1 billion in 2019 by 32 we will be at $42 billion
market in firewalls. How cool? Because network security is
very very important. Okay. When you listen from people who do not know anything. Okay. So just show
them this screenshot.
Okay. So this is the cyber security again. Cyber security is also going to be the awesome thing. Okay.
So that's what I wanted to show. So every field is good if whether it is related to networking, cloud, cyber
security, we all are going to grow when we learn properly. Okay. So
uh so internet is evolving, internet users are import uh increased day by
day. So when you connect two or more computers together that form a network that's called networking okay and every
so what is van network wide area network when you connect with the different
suppose you have office in di Mumbai Chennai okay so when you have multiple
offices there that's called van network okay uh
so calm guys let's take 5 minutes break okay Okay, 5 minutes break.
We will close today at 11:15 around and we'll take your 15 20 minutes questions
also. Okay, it's a first day. I do not want to become the strict teacher.
Okay, take 5 minutes break.
Okay, I'm back guys. Okay, so some questions uh people asked
me. Okay, let me see. Time to go to work. I'll be watching recordings.
Okay. Okay. Tulc I do understand.
So by the end of the course one will be able to take CC exam or do we need to get more practices. So after finishing
the batch uh like you there are some questions which you have to prepare okay
what we call sample questions and all related to what you learned and then you'll be able to crack the exams.
Yeah, I already put my laptop on battery.
Thank you, Rafi. Uh, only a batch for CCNA CCMP. Yes. So,
I'll be taking CCNA NRC. But if you have also taken the Paul Alto, that will be
trained by a firewall guide. So I'm not a firewall expert. I am into routing,
switching, uh service provider domain. So polto trainer is different. Okay. But
I'll be taking your CCNP. Interview preparation is branch.
Interview preparation will be inside the course. Yes. after completion of the course you
will get a certification from networkings and also you can give Cisco exams. Okay. So currently we are working
on that uh like um uh we are trying to create our own certificates. We already
have certificates but networkings is also planning to launch our certifications. Maybe you will get
certifications also like uh we are thinking to write the name like practical network engineer something
like that. Okay. But we will modify a little bit content.
Okay. Because we cannot launch a Cisco content with the name of our certification, right? So just to save
some bugs. If people are not willing to pay for Cisco, maybe we can just uh plan
something. We can plan our certifications. Okay. So we have done that lab. Let's say go further. Yeah.
So yeah.
Yeah. So first thing so network what is network engineer? Network engineer role?
What is the role of network engineer? If anybody is very very new to this field. So typically they have good knowledge on
network knowledge and network engineers are not technicians by the way because lot of people they are thinking network
engineers are the people who are doing this like mounting the devices and all or
just uh uh putting the LAN cables or van cables on the road. Those are network
technicians operators. Okay. But a network engineer, what is a network
engineer? Who is constantly update their knowledge on networking devices like
Cisco routers, juniper, firewalls. So this is what we normally do. It's a sitting job normally. It's not a field
job. We do not travel. We do not go and mount. I'm talking about specifically in
India. Okay? Uh because one of my good friend after working in India for almost
12 years, he moved to Canada. He never worked like this in India because we
have normal technicians in India. But now with the 12 years of experience with
very high-end knowledge he is doing this work also. So it depends on country to country.
Again I'm telling you in US, Canada this is very normal and maybe expert even a
CCI gy can do this type of stuff sometimes not every time but in India
that work will be done by normal network technicians okay maybe it totally again
depends but most of the time you are going to configure the devices
okay so how the big company network look like obviously this This is not the
design. This is to explain you the devices to network devices.
These all are network devices related to networking. Okay. So you can see first of all let's
start with very simple desktop. So what is desktop and laptop? You already using it right? So then we have a device
called printer to print the paper camera. So all these are these devices
which devices all these devices small devices are called end devices which
devices end devices because they are in the end of the network right
end of the layer that's why they are called end layer end uh devices then we
have a device you can see switch so what is switch basically connecting multiple machines together is called switch
connecting multiple switch together is a switch and then we have a layer three switch. Then what is the need of switch
and layer three switch? Interview question what is the difference between layer normal switch or layer three
switch. So basically layer three switch is like a router it can do router while
stuff also it can do routing also switching also but a normal switch can only do switching. It can you can only
connect computers connect with each other in the switch. But in a layer three switch you can connect with
routers also you can connect with the firewalls also. So you can see now layer 3 switch is connected with one firewall
and there is a IPS device also intrusion prevention system. It is to check the
troans malic malicious attacks in the company emails check basically it it
used to check the spams emails all those stuff router so this is the router where
we connect our internet so behind this router we have a firewall behind this router IPS now best thing if I tell you
now all is
October and H. So,
so if you see here now this router, IPS and firewall. So these all devices are
replaced by one m big device which is called
next generation firewall. IPS it also do IPS it also do firewall
it also do the functionality of router. So these NGWF routers are Paul polar one
checkpoint and 40 gate
40 gate and Cisco also has a FTD firewall threat defense. So these are
four popular firewalls. There are lot of other firewalls but I think the proper
NGFW which is like combination of IPS check the viruses malware okay check the
packet inside that's called IPS firewall is to protect that no attacker can enter
in my company network yes because attacker will print a lot will waste a
lot of pages I'm just kidding right the hacker will
not do printing only he can take the data in from this server
maybe it is a important server right so this guy okay the this guy
so can attack in my company network that's why we place firewall so why we use the firewall so that nobody from
outside nobody can from outside can enter in my network firewall will
protect me from outside attacks clear guys so Then why this router is
added here? Why router is added? Because router is a device to connect different
network. Connect router connected different networks.
So obviously internet is what? Internet is a different network. My network this
network is a different network. Right? So how you connect network with the internet? with the help of router
because just take an example of your home network. You have a normal Wi-Fi router. Okay. So this Wi-Fi devices are
connected. So why you have a router in your home? Because your home network is
also a network. So your home network connected to internet. Internet is a different network. So that's why we
place a router everywhere because router is a device which is used to connect two
or more different networks. Clear everyone? So IPS is for viruses for malware for uh
for firewall is to protect you from outside attacks. So right now in the
first class I'm expecting that you understand only oneliners. oneliners.
Okay, you should understand oneliners. Okay, so so as a first class now tell me
what is router. Type in the chat whatever you know. Now let's do a quick
activity. Try to write just one liner what is router.
Router is a device which is used to connect to different
networks.
Okay. Now tell me what is firewall.
I can see lot of messages. Good. Good.
So it is a device which is used to connect two different networks. Very good guys. What is firewall? Let's see.
Uh firewall is to protect the incoming traffic. It is also help you to outgoing
traffic. Means it's not about outside.
It can also help people that this user cannot access
facebook.com means it will protect from internal to outside. It will but majorly
majorly the first priority of a router is to automatically block outside
traffic. Okay. So just write block outside traffic.
Block outside traffic. And the second thing block outside traffic. The second thing
uh create policy. Policy means whatever policies you want to create policy
according to the company according to the company.
So what kind of policy permit policy that which user we should we permit and
deny means which user we want to deny. So create policy according to the
company. So firewall is a network device which will block outside traffic also
create policies according to the company and who will do that
log by hlo not chat gut
chat guty will help you to just give guidelines okay but clear now router
firewall okay so now tell me IPS what is IPS oneliner
Detect and prevent malicious activities. Okay. What is IPS?
Detect detect and detect and prevents.
detects and prevents malicious
malicious attacks attacks or activities.
Okay.
So connect. So IDPS is called intrusion prevention
system. Intrusion
prevention system.
Okay. The similar there is a device uh not in the picture normally we uh don't
do not use too much you can say but there is a device called IDS. Okay. which is only for the detection.
It will not prevent you can say intrusion. Intrusion means problem. Okay. Intrusion
detection system. Intrusion detection system.
Now this is also a network device which will monitor and analyze for threats.
Okay. Monitor and analyze. You can say monitor and analyze
key. Monitor and analyze network traffic to identify potential security breaches or
suspicious activities. Monitor and analyze suspicious activities.
Very slight difference. IPS intrusion prevention system. It will detect and
prevent malicious activities where we will this device will protect us also.
This will protect also. Okay. But IDS is like monitor and
analyze. Analyze. We will not protect. We will analyze. We will monitor and then maybe another
device maybe firewall. Maybe IPS will protect but IDS will only observe.
Yes, IPS is like kind of a radar system. Yes, we will only monitor. Okay. But uh
IPS is actually a device which will protect also. Clear wine liner.
Okay. So, sorry guys if I crack little Hindi jokes. So,
if I get a time I will convert into subtitles in the video.
Okay. So the third layer three. So layer three
device. So layer three device is layer three.
Let's write for switch. Switch. Switch is a network device which connect
two or more computers together. Two or more computers. Computers or network uh let's say
network devices. Okay. which connects two or more network devices
or two or more uh uh network and end devices. network and end devices
together because this can also connect switches to switches also router to router.
So switch is a device which connect two or more network and end devices or very
simple you just say switch is a network device which is used to connect multiple
which is used to connect multiple host.
So in networking there is a term called host. Host what is host? Any machine
where we give IP address okay like server, desktop, tablet, laptop, printer
in every machine we give IP address and the so when you assign any IP with address device with the IP address is
called host. Device with IP address in the technical
language is called host.
Okay.
Devices with IP addresses called host.
Okay. Okay. So which is used to be mult which is used to connect which is used to connect multiple host
right. So now what is this layer three switch which is used to connect multiple host also it has
like uh routing capacity like what is router connect multiple networks right
connect multiple or connect different networks right router connect different
networks
connect different networks right so now understand the combination of router and
switch is called layer three okay so layer three you can say it's a network device which perform which do routing
and switching both routing and switching
both. Okay. Where we assign IP called host.
Yes. What? So any machine computer, printer, server, desktop, IP phone, all
these are called host also because in sometime in the books uh it will be
written the IP address is given to the host one and host two. Okay. Computers,
printers, laptops, any device where we give IP address is called host. Okay.
Multiple host means multiple machines. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. Now you see this.
So there are some softwares in networking. Okay. Like management services and all. Okay. Which we'll
discuss like Cisco has a software called DNA. Okay. Which we will discuss. So now
you can see there is a device called virtual machine. What is virtual
machine?
Like there is one server and if you create multiple machines inside that one
server is called virtual machines. Okay, have you heard about VMware guys? VMware
virtual box. Okay.
So virtual machines why this why this diagram or why this topology is showing
you virtual machine because in the real world when you connect when you create a
machine in cloud okay that's also a virtual machine not the physical machine
okay so let me show you it's very simple as I
mentioned we all are here for multiple we we have to holistically grow. So
suppose if I go to
okay so so let's build a virtual machine okay so
uh I can show you in VMware but in my Mac I think VMware is I don't have but
it's okay I can show you in a cloud
okay so you can see when you log in on this uh what we call AWS okay so there
are a lot of services and all what we call uh you can see AWS console you go
to the console dot so it's a free I think you just have to use any debit
card and all it uh and they will give you some one year free access so you can
see EC2 okay so just go and check my uh like if uh I have already created a few
videos on AWS on our YouTube channel. Okay. So you can see day one job roles
in cloud and all. You can watch those videos also. Okay. So you can see here
EC2 services. If you go to the services there is a EC2 dashboard. Go to EC2
dashboard. So now you can see launch instance. Okay. So now you put a server name.
Okay. Let's say ABC. Okay. So now you want Ubuntu. You want
Red Hat. Okay. What type of operating system you want to install. Okay. So, A
B C. Here I want to install the Windows. Okay. Let's go with Windows. And in
Windows machine, you want to use Windows Server 2022. You can see free tier
eligible. Always remember you have to use the free tier eligible because if you go with this one, it is going to
charge on your credit card, debit card. Okay. Ha. free tier. Okay. So, let me
start a free tier something. Okay. So, you can see uh it's also written free
tier and all. So, proceed
create. So, I have to create a key here. I can also give a name a key.
Okay. So, you can see all the rules by default everyone is permitted. Okay. So this is
what basically this is called virtual machine I'm just sharing that we can create
this is also a virtual machine okay don't forget to stop and within 1 minute the the
server is ready just it's showing pending but very soon we will be able to
access this server okay
hardly it took like few seconds and my server got this public IP address. Okay.
So you can see this is the public IP. From this IP we will be able to access
and uh currently the instance state is pending. I think it will take 5 minutes.
Okay. So this is what we call AWS. It's a global cloud platform. Okay. But as of
now you do not have to learn cloud first. If you have time, if you feel like Monday, Tuesday is uh uh I I can
spare some time. Okay. Then you can check if you can attend AWS batch. Side
by side you have to learn or best thing you join live batch you get the knowledge and plus you can attend all
excess pass or maybe you can get any course from anywhere also if uh or from
networkings whatever you like. Okay. So because on our platform if anybody do not have time to attend live batches.
Okay. We have this what we call all access pass also where you get
around 50 plus courses. Okay, it has AWS it because uh uh all
the road maps all these courses are inside that course. So if you are already expert, if you know lot of
things then this package you can also take along with live classes so that u
you will learn lot of technologies and you can learn about the latest trends what are there in the market and all the
programs are delivered by experts. Okay. But if you are not in hurry just attend this live batch then after that we will
plan. Okay. And if you are a fresher you are looking for job. Okay. If you have
already attended my batch, if you already enrolled, I would recommend you there is another platform which is
called skills for everyone.com where we have very lot every c uh like all the
basic fundamental courses on free skills for everyone. I highly recommend everyone, all of you who joined my
batch, those who are not joined my batch, I would highly recommend everyone
make a challenge to yourself that complete one free course in a month
because if you attend multi from multiple places, okay, then you learn
more. But I try I can assure you all my engineers who are teaching like they are
from the industry because you cannot guarantee you are watching anything on YouTube maybe a guy who do not have the
real world knowledge is teaching right so uh YouTube is like anybody can become
a trainer right so that's why I'm saying so your time is more important if you
spend 10 hours in any random course in Linux in YouTube and if you spend 10
hours in this Linux next course you will have pretty better knowledge than anyone in the market that's what I'm saying
because when you learn the free knowledge free skills and all you can automatically add those skills in your
resume so this is like a gift for everyone happy Diwali from my side this
almost we have 20 plus courses free and these are I'm not saying they are very
very full courses they are but yes 10 to 15 hours but some courses are very very
free uh very very free is not a correct word right it's free basically so C C++
like if you really want to learn coding because in future maybe you have to learn automation you can start learning
about coding you can see 31 hours of free content available on CC++
okay so maybe Python because in future you will be going to learn about network automation so 18 hours of Python course
is fully free right so So it's better you can share with your
friends, you can share with your juniors it will definitely help and we are working on that more and more free
courses will create. Okay. So my CCNA basic content is also available 8 to 10
hours CC free but in the live batch we are delivering 100 plus hours that's
obviously the difference. Okay. But if you only want basic knowledge because I think fundamental knowledge should be
free right? Yes or no? fundamental knowledge free but when people are
putting five months 6 months obviously those batches are not going to be
okay so this is what I want to say and the server is almost ready let's go yeah
they server ready if I click on the server
okay so you can see migrate connector stop so let's say connect
and uh
So RDP client. So you can say download remote desktop file. So I downloaded.
So now I double click on that. You can see my server is getting connected and it's
asking the password and that password
it's been a long time because some mostly I use uh that
Linux machines RDP I'm checking.
Okay. Get password. You can see get password and uh I have to upload that private key. Initially we downloaded
pim. Yeah. And decrypt the password. This is my password. I copy this. And now I
paste here and continue. You can see continue.
Don't worry, it's a part of your CCNA CCNP batch. Okay, that's why I'm showing you all this. So, you can see Windows
machine I'm running inside AWS
connect because it's free version.
Okay. So you can see Windows machine is ready guys. Yeah. So you can create your server if
you learn about uh Windows server active directories and all. If you know those things, you can build a active directory
inside a cloud. You can build DHCP server, DNS server. Okay, so all these
things you can see server manager and you can create your office server in the cloud. Okay, so you can see how cool is
that and we we are actually connected to internet also. And I think in cloud we get very
high speeded internet. You do not have to worry because if you
if you open the website uh if you buy your own servers right then you buy
internet link then uh there are see watch my cloud video
then you will understand a little bit about uh what what exactly I'm talking about okay but uh I think that's good
overview to give a virtual machine introduction so this is what we created is called virtual machine so already AWS
has big big data centers. So what is data centers? Where lot of servers are
there in the in the world. Okay. So you can see to sub. So all these are called
data centers where we put a lot of servers, router, switches and all and lot of engineers are required in the
data centers also. Okay. Like CCNP enterprise what we are learning right
now. after CCNP enterprise you can learn about CCNP data center which is little
different than CCNP enterprise but yes
so you can always take a digital tour of uh these uh
here they go so always explore what exactly they are doing okay so this is what we all updated knowledge.
Okay, our data centers you can see this is how they build AWS data centers. So
when you actually love the technology then only they the technology will give you rewards salary basically. So if you
want high paying jobs you have to love technology. A people a guy without uh without loving
technology cannot be expert. Okay to the server. Okay. So we can
close the server just explore website AWS and all then you will get to know little bit sideby-side knowledge. And
once you done with that EC2 go to instances and
stop this instance remember always. And we have to
terminate instance. Terminate means delete almost
stop instance. Okay. So make sure you stop the instance because else AWS will uh will not able
to charge you. Okay.
Okay. So that's uh that's what we call uh
RDP client. Okay.
How to access skill for everyone? Just create account and access.
Okay.
engineers,
right? But this is my recommendation.
Okay. So now if I go back network devices
basic. Okay. So read this line these devices routers which is access point
and there is a device called WLC. Okay. So what is this wireless LAN
controller? So basically we will learn about this wireless LAN controller. Basic like lot of uh if you have seen
college, university, a big hotel, you have seen lot of Wi-Fi devices everywhere, right? So obviously they do
not have they do not configure one by one. They configure all Wi-Fi devices
from one location. That's why this is called WLC wireless LAN controller. So
this is like server of Wi-Fi devices. You can say control all Wi-Fi devices
from this place called wireless LAN controller. Lot of companies are making wireless land controller. Cisco, Aruba,
lot of other companies also. Okay. But u um Aruba, Cisco, MRAI, Cisco Maki,
Ubiquiti. Okay. There these are the four five companies which are popular. Uh
Ruxus. Okay. So companies you can just see Wi-Fi devices and wireless also has
a good demand in the market if you actually learn wireless but wireless uh
uh has very limited uh what we call practical labs around
the globe. Okay. Because it's difficult it's how you learn wireless when you actually join the companies
notes don't worry. So
network. So when you learn about networking there are a few things we need to know. First of all we need to
understand what is a topology. So topology what is topology. So this
diagram is called topology. We call this diagram we call this in
networking we call this topology. Topology. Okay. So so what is
characteristics of a network? The first is network topology. A network engineer
has to understand network topologies. Okay. What is the design? What is the
flow? All these things. Okay. Then we talk about bandwidth and
bit per rate. As I mentioned uh like there is a website called uh fast.com
if you want to check your internet speed or speedtest.com. Right? So now if you see it is giving me the data at 130 Mbps
and 130 Mbps and there is uh going to be a different upload speed also like maybe
uh like this and this latency we'll talk about upload download and all okay so
this is what we call bit rate everything in the networking is depend on the bandwidth okay
so the unit the unit of bit rate is bit per second okay so what is Bits 0 and
one are called bits. Okay. So the calculation is bits per second. BPS bits
per second. So this is also called bit rate. Okay. So bit rate or bit rate or
bandwidth is also a measure of data rate in the networking. The topology topology
is important. Then bandwidth is also important. Then availability is also important. that when you actually create
a diagram, when you create your company network, you should have backup links
because if one link fail, you should have a backup. Okay? If one device fail,
you should have a backup to go from another side. Like in a company, if you have only one internet connection, your
company will not be able to access internet if one uh internet link goes
down. That's why you buy two internet links. That's what we call availability
that instead of one ISP we will go with the two ISP instead of one device we
will go with two routers because if one router fail my company network will go down the if you remember
when I started the class I told you that in a company we actually add
remember this okay what is network when two or more computers are connected together is known as network and when
they share data and resources is known as networking. Right?
And when we talk about uh
when we talk about Yeah. So when we design our company
networks like two routers when we have switches we have two switches. Okay. When we have a normal
switches, we have computers, laptops. Okay, so computers, laptops, servers.
Okay, so these are just diagrams or what we call topology.
So these two routers are connected to this like this. We have multiple links
like one with this switch, one with this switch. So what exactly I'm doing? I'm
increasing the availability. Okay.
Availability should be good which is also called redundancy. Technical word
redendency. Okay. Redundant redundant redundancy
availability. Okay. So availability or redundancy means multiple links multiple
devices. Because if one IR router goes down, still this internet can go from
this side. If this cable goes down, you can go from this side, right? So that's
what we call availability band or and company should have a good bandwidth. Right? Because if you do not have good
devices, good bandwidth, your network will be choked. Choked means they uh it
it is not going to perform very well.
Okay. So, switches WLC characteristics, bit rate, availability, reliability. So,
when you buy internet links, when you buy the network devices, they should be reliable. Okay. So, if you buy just
normal internet connect ISP, but they are not giving you good internet speed, then your whole company network will be
in problem, right? So, that's why you focus on four things. Okay, you focus on
creating a best design of your company. Then you focus on the high bandwidth
devices and the links. Okay, then you check about the high availability in your company. And then you check the
reliability of your company network. Okay. Now this is what I told you. This
is going to be the answer for mostly when people ask you okay tell me how you
as a network engineer how you will improve network performance. This is the answer.
I will build the best topology design so that there will be no problem. Then I
will focus on high bandwidth devices and links. Then I focus on availability. I
will add redundancy links. And fourth I will make sure I buy from the reliable
companies, reliable devices and reliable internet links. Yes. And this is very common. Normally
engineers will not only ask you technical questions they will ask you these questions also where they can ask
you okay tell me how you will improve network performance
okay so you can't say sir I will configure OPF
right so that's a configuration that's obviously it's advanced thing you
after that there are a lot of other things but I think that's okay for today
I do not want to go in deep dive today only
okay so Yeah. Yeah, I do understand. Uh but yes,
normally try to make a habit of uh attending 2 to 2.5 hours because we are
only doing 2 days a week. If I just imagine if I make five days and every
all five days you have to come and learn. I hope now if we are learning two
days try to stretch little bit okay so that you have four five days for your 3
days uh Tuesday Wednesday Thursday for your learning Saturday Sunday enjoy
play cricket world cup is going on.
Okay. So because I put 5 days it would I have seen lot of people they do not learn then you know suppose if they miss
two three classes then they are not able to cope up with me. So you get enough time right?
So now I'm going to unmute everyone but please ask one by one. Okay. Let's
not make uh what we call our social science ma'am told once a day don't make
fish market. Okay. One by one. Yes.
Yes. Alo. Yes sir.
Good evening sir. Good evening. Good evening. achieve my thank you sir
very well we use layer three devices because in layer three devices we have both routing and switching options now
so it can be used for both uh routing and switching so wherever we will use layer three
devices at that um uh at that condition we don't need this uh router sir for a
router has net basically Router has a nat functionality. NAT
functionality guys mute those who are not speaking. NAT is like convert
private IP into public IP. Right? Private IP into public IP. Your
home router is also doing NAT. Layer 3 device do not have NAT capability. And
there are some modules in router which do not have in we do not have in layer 3 device. That's why Cisco is saying buy
my layer 3 device for the middle level network middle layer device middle
layer. Okay. But you cannot replace router with layer three because the
layer three device do not do nat. So just remember this line when you learn when you understand the nat topic then
you will understand this more. Okay. Okay. Fine. Thanks.
Yes. Any other guy? Okay.
Uh service provider.
So
basic
L3VPN is there but for L2VPN for segment routing which is very very advanced
technologies is then you have to attend a service provider batch or it's the content is also available in all access
pass. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay.
So introduction
right we'll discuss with you guys. Yeah I'll always explain in English Rafi
don't worry. Okay. So I think uh uh we'll connect
tomorrow guys. And if any also by the way we have lot of portals. Okay. Let me
give you overview little bit. Uh like uh even after the class if you
want to ask questions and all I can share with you all
uh just hold on. Okay. So first of all when you join networkings uh you get a
live portal access. Okay. Live.nwkings.com. nwkings.com. Okay. So in this portal you will be
going to get your live courses. Okay. So one every day you come to know okay
today is my class or not and you can download this application also. Okay. Uh
it's so it will give you notification okay there will be a class or not or something like that but just remember
that day also I'll be sharing a WhatsApp community link. Okay, we do not create
WhatsApp groups because uh people we respect uh their privacy. We do not share
numbers with each other. That's why we build a WhatsApp community and if I want to share any update about if there is no
class, if I want to share about anything important, if there is a job vacancy, anything related to that, we will create
a WhatsApp community. I think that link is also shared already with my team. Okay. If we have not shared, we will
share again tomorrow. Don't worry. Okay. The second thing as I mentioned live
portal is for live classes and the other portal we have is for videos. Okay. So
that is learn.nwkings.com where you will be able to watch videos on learn portal. Some batches we shift
on another portal which is uh but I think this batch videos you will be able to watch on learn.nwinks.com.
Okay. So live and learn both live is for live classes. Learn portal is to watch
your videos. If you got any pre-recorded videos like batch which video content
suppose if you got it so you will be going to watch here learn.nwinks.com. Okay. So the only two three things and
uh uh if you anybody have not enrolled uh till now suppose if you got a zoom ID
from your counselors or something then every time for admissions uh you go to
our website obviously okay fill any form okay lot of forms on
website you just uh go and contact us okay so this is where we
uh enter our name and all but if you face any problem during your lab okay
because you will get a lab access right so when you're doing lab but you are not able to login you forget your password
anything happened so you can see already enrolled but facing there is a different WhatsApp number for that team contact
support so you can see help networkings.com and you can directly
WhatsApp my team they will want they will get back to you on this Okay. So
just click on that and just share your problem. Okay. I'm not able to login. I'm not able to blah blah blah blah be
okay. And if you they are not responding okay you can escalate to this number.
You can call this number. These all three numbers are also there. So lot of things are there to support and still if
anybody do not help you you can always send email to me also. Okay. So I'll
share my email id with you so that you have the uh from but always follow the
hierarchy go to contact team support team and if they do not resolve your issue try to contact and all because
when you are doing lab and all and by the way these guys are L1 engineers or
L2 little bit that means they can help you at basic level okay but do not expect okay please configure SD van for
me that you can ask a trainers Okay, SPF if you have any configuration issue, BGP
issue. Okay, so you can ask in the live class. Okay, if you do not get time in the live class to ask question, then we
have another portal which I'll be sharing with you. Okay, but yes, if anybody wants to take admission, they go
come here chat, share your number and all. We will get back to you very soon.
Okay. So, let me stop the live stream so that I can share some private information.
Thank you all who attended on YouTube today.
So, how was the class guys? Good. Excellent. Enjoyed.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Question. Yeah. Yeah. Just second. Second. So,
YouTube live

