ript


complain about me. Go here.
Okay.
Okay. So we are going to learn today DHCP and uh we are going to learn the lab also. So what is DHCP? DHCP stand
for dynamic host configuration protocol. Okay. So DHCP stand for dynamic host
configuration protocol and this protocol is used to assign IP addresses
automatically means automatically computers will be going to get the IP
address. Okay. So so you can make DHCP
server in Windows server machine. Okay. So we have to make one DHCP server and
all other computers are called DHCP clients. Okay. So you can make your Windows server like Windows server uh
2012, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2022.
Okay. So, so what are these? They are Windows servers. You can make DHCP in that servers. You can make DHCP in Linux
servers. You can make DHCP server in routers. You can also make DHCP server
in L3 switches. Okay. So what happens in DHCP? So let's configure and understand.
Okay. So this is the lab we are going to do today. Okay. Like one router with two
LAN networks and we will see how these are getting the
pool. Okay. Okay. So let me open that packet tracer.
Okay. So, I'm using one router.
Okay. So, what I'll be doing today, I'll be making this router as a DHCP server.
Okay. Okay. So we will use two LAN networks. Okay. So DHCP will automatically give IP
address to the machines. Means if I have multiple laptops. Okay. So there are other laptops. Okay. So these laptops
are connected with switches. Okay.
Like this. All cables are connected. Right. And if
you want you can add the giga port like this.
Okay. So this is the scenario and uh so we will be using 1.0 and 10. Okay. So
I'll be giving one IP address here 192 168 1. 100. So this will be my gateway.
So you can give any IP address to the gateway. You can use.1 also. You can use
150 also 1 also. So I'm using 1 for the gateway and there is another network
I'll using 1000 0 0 100. So I'm using 100 IP on the second other side. Okay.
So I'll be assigning IP address to these laptops with DP. Okay. So we go to the
router, we go to the config section and right now.
You can see guys uh enable configure terminal.
After that you can put a name like host name R1 whatever router name you want to give. And after that you give IP address
like interface GI 00 0 IP address 192 168 100
no shutdown okay so no shutdown so that is given and
then after that interface GI 01 IP address
1000 0 10 0 0 100. Okay. So this is class A.
So no shutdown. Okay. So remember when it is class A so you are using class A
subnet mask. When it is class C you are using class C subnet mask. Okay. So if
you don't remember so class A which is from 1 to 126. Okay. So
whenever you give IP address from these classes the subnet mask will be 25550.
After that we have class B that is from 128 to 191. So if you have any IP
address in this range the subnet mask will be 255250 0. This is called class
B. And then we have class C which is 192
to 220 3 which is 3 * 255.
Okay. So this is the range class A B and C. Okay. So, so remember if I'm using
class C, so the subnet mask will be 255 255 0 and if I'm using / 10 10 sorry not
/ 10 10 network so 10 IP belong from class A or it is 2500 0. So just check
the first digit 10 comes under class A 192 comes under
class C. So you have to just uh understand this and give that IP
address. So we have already given IP addresses. So you can verify
show ip interface show IP interface brief.
Okay. So you can see we have given 1 and 1000. So we have two gateways ready.
So now but I do not want to give static IP say manual IP. Then I don't want to give
manual IPs. So I want to use DHCP. So which will automatically I'll make
this router as a DHCP server.
Yeshini we can give other classes also we will discuss in subnetting. Okay. So
next week I'll be taking subnitting classes. Okay. So please revise your class IP address class before uh next
week class guys. Okay. So please revise
IP addressing class before next week.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. So, so my practical is not done because I'm going to make this server as
a DHCP server. Okay. So, basically what we will be doing, we will be creating a
DHCP pool. Okay. So what is DHCP pool? So it's like a group. Okay. So what we
will be doing? We will be using some DHCP pool.
Okay. So what is the pool? Okay. So the DHCP pools are like this.
Okay. So like I'm creating a DHCP pool for my left side network which is 19260.
So what we say IP DHCP pool A. You can give any name here. A B C whatever.
Okay. So then you give the network that what IPs you want to assign to the computers. So that comes under network.
Okay. That I want to assign 192.02. So this is my network ID and my default
router IP is 192 means what is my default gateway for LAN computers. So
this is my default router means default gateway. So the command is default router 192 1681.10. 10 and if you have
any DNS server okay so you can put that also but right now I don't have any DNS
DNS server okay so you can remove or you can just give any DNS server
so I think uh there is a server and we can make this server also as a DNS
server
Okay. But it's uh not required right now. So DNS is not required. But yes, uh this
is just an example that you can set DNS server also. You can give 88888.
That's okay. So you can transfer DNS detail also with DCP.
Okay. So let me create the pool. So we go to the router
configure terminal IP DHCP pool. You can say any name like uh let me give here uh
say this is ABC and then you say what network I want to
assign. So I want to give IP address from 192 168 1.0 zero network
then subnet mask then you say what is my default router so who is going to be my
gateway that IP address okay and if you have any DNS server so you can say DNS
server 888 or 1.1.1 so what I have done just now I created a DHCP pool you can
verify by typing show ip DCP pool
so what is written over here that we have a group pool means group. So we have created a group name pool ABC and
total IP address we have is 254 address because this is class C. So the first IP
and the last IP if you minus that you will get 254 IPs.
Okay. So you can see there is uh lease that we can give IP from 1.1 to 254.
Can you see that? And right now there is no lease means we have not given IP address to any computer. Okay. So lease
means that to how many computers we have given the IP. So none of the computer has this IP address.
Okay. So how simple is that? Just with these
three four commands you can note it down if you want. But if I go to the laptop
so DHCP because by default all the machines are on DCP. So you can see little blurry but still you can see here
if you come near to the laptop okay that 192 we got 192 168.1.1 as IP address. We
got the subnet mask also. We got the DNS default gateway IP also and the DNS
server also means all the details we got from that
DHCP configuration.
Okay. So now you just go to any laptop and just click on the DCP.
So you you can see we got another IP 1.2. So we have given IPs to two
machines. And if I say show ip DCP pool. So you can see we have given the two
laptops le means we have given them some IP address. Okay. So now
those IPs are in the laptop. So you can see we can keep going on and you will
see that we have got lot of IP addresses in class C. But if you have a very very
big network you want to uh assign lot of IP address maybe more than 200 500. So
class C will only give you 254 IP but class A will give you millions of IP.
Okay. So we can create DHCP for another network also. So we can say IP DHCP
pool. let's say uh XYZ. So the default router or the network so
network is 1000 0
and uh subnet mask and then defa what we call the default
router which is 10 0 and if you want DNS server like you can
give also any DNS server. So we have configured the another network also
automatically these machines will get IP. Now you can see we got 10001 how
excited exciting sorry. So DHCP.
So you can see we are getting IP all the IPs again and again.
Why the four digit of gateway is always one?
It is not mandatory gurit. So today we have given 1. So this is not one this is
1. So it's not mandatory but it is always recommended to use any first IP, last IP
or round figure like 100, 200 so that you can remember for longer time.
Yes, we can exclude also. So now you want that some IPs from your
group. Okay. So you want that this is the
so this is the plan right? So we have created DHCP pool but now some IPs you
want to exclude like I do not want to go and configure.
So you can say I don't want to give IP from 1.1
to 1.20. Okay. Means the first 20 IP I want to
reserve. Okay. So you can go to the router and say IP DHCP exclude address.
I do not want my DHCP pool will give IP from 1.1 to 120. So if I show you DHCP
pool
here it is not showing H.
So these are the computers that which MAC address got what IP address. That's called DHCP binding and this is called
automatic binding. But in corporate network sometimes you have to do manual binding also. So that is like little
advanced right now for you guys. Okay. But as of now you understand that this is called DHCP binding that these MAC
addresses are getting IPs and this will be their IP address.
So now I I told you like there is exclude command also. So if you give exclude command what will happen that
any computer if we try to get IP that will start after 21. You can see if I
click on any laptop and click on the DHCP directly I'm getting 192 161.22
okay because we have given this exclude address command. So it means these IP
will be reserved and after that if I want that uh
I want to reserve 200 IPs. So you can do that also by typing IP
IPCP exclude address from 00001 to 1000200
200 IPs are excluded. 200 IPs are excluded. And now
10001. So you can see if I go here
the IP will start after 201 because whatever command I'm typing here I'm reserving this IP because in future
maybe you have to do manually like I want to use 100000002.
So this IP I want to reserve give manually. Okay. So sometimes we have to give IP to the router to the internet to
the other devices. So you keep some IP addresses save like you can just uh put
some videos like 1.1 to 20. So exclude
address means 20 IPs will be reserved. And here for example we have reserved 200 IPs. So next time if anybody ask uh
um the IP address and all so it will start from 1000201 because yeah those IP
reserve and these 20 IPs and these 200 IPs both are reserved. Okay so that's
the plan and right now what do you can see we got 121 here and there's another
machine 00201 so we can ping let's say ping
10 0 0 201. Let's see if we can able to ping.
Yes guys, we got the ping.
So please check the syntax after giving IP address. These are the commands what I have given on the
device. Okay. Okay. So coming in 5 minutes. So
you guys try uh so if you have time please uh uh go to the notes
and let me upload this file.
Okay. So you can download this lab and uh when you open the lab okay so when
you open the lab uh just configure DHCP or try to configure everything from the
beginning but uh I would suggest you to configure if you already open the file
and see if there is a DHCP pool or not. So if you see any DCP pool you can
remove also by saying no IP DHCP pool A or sorry ABC I think what is
the correct name ABC and XYZ. So now please uh make sure
let me upload the file again. I think that file.
Okay. So you can open this file. How to exclude any single specific IP
address. So in both the lines you can mention the same thing.
Okay. So please practice this coming in 5 minutes.
So this is the syntax and
Okay, I'm back. I think you guys are not active.
Some people are saying I'm not able to hear you. I told you that I'm coming in 5 minutes.
I was on break guys.
Sorry. Are you guys sleeping? See?
Okay. Okay. So, we have done DHCP. So, what is DHCP?
uh that uh you configure a router as a DHCP server by just giving three four
commands. So this is for my left side network and this is for my right side
and you can see both my LAN networks are getting automatically IP addresses
right. So these are getting automatically IP address and you can practice this
for DHCP. So now when it comes to DHCP there are four messages. So these are
called discover, offer, request and acknowledgement. Okay. So in DHCP we
have four type of messages. Discover that is to discover the server. So you
can see this is my computer DHCP client. So client send the first message DHCP
discover to find the DHCP server. So that please server can you please give
me IP address. So this is IP address request. So the DCP server will check
the pool from the pool it will give some IP address offer. So DHCP offer will be
given by server to the client and then client say okay everything is okay I'm
I'm ready to accept further details. So request means IP address selection. Yes,
I'm okay with this IP address. And finally DCP server give the final IP
address acknowledgement with all the details.
You are not audible guys. I'm audible right
join the class again.
Okay. So, and after that you can see
so this is more uh way more uh like if I go
and uh if I show you on this what we call simulation mode. Okay. So right now
if I click on the simulation mode.
Okay. So you can see and uh I go to any laptop go to static.
Okay. So I'm just going again. So uh remove the IP from the computer. Go to
simulation mode. Okay. And just uh go to laptop and click on the DHCP.
So now you can see a message here yellow packet and if you open this packet you
can see the DHCP is a layer 7 protocol it's a application layer protocol it
work on port number 68 and 67 client uses 68 port number the computer
uses UDP port number 68 and they send the details to the UDP port number 67 so
server UD uh port number 67 for DHCP server and
uh client all computers clients they use 68 as a port number. So you can see on
layer 4 it is using UDP protocol which is a user datagramgram protocol.
So right now I don't have IP address. I don't have IP address that's why it's
000000 because I don't have the IP address but I'm sending this to 255 255 255. So this
is called broadcast IP. So basically I'm sending you can see here
if you read this line.
Yeah. So the DHCP client construct a discover packet. DCHCP client discover
packet the DCP client sending a discover packet to find the DCHCP server because
I'm sending on port number 67 and in my network only DHCP server work on 67 okay
so means if you send any packet all machines send packets only the router will reply them because router is a DHCP
server they all computers works on UDP 68 8 6868
but in the destination there is a port number 67. You can see Destination
is 67. Destination port is 67. So that is my DHCP server which I made my
router. So when you forward this packet,
this packet will be broadcast to everyone. But computers will not understand because computers are not 67.
But router is also saying no. Uh let me try again. So sometimes it happens
and make sure guys uh you can because right now you see some other packets. So it's better you click on show none and
just uh select the DCP. I only want to see the DHCP packets
because else it will show you all. So right now you can see this is uh the discover packet. Again I send the packet
again this broadcast. So
why it is saying no? Let me see.
Okay. So you can see router is saying I router do not have a pool.
Okay. I think we have removed uh so when I you can see I removed it
because I don't I want to send this file to you guys. But we can configure them again.
Okay. So let me configure. Yes, I configure the DHCP pools again.
And let me go to give uh static and
simulation mode. Just select the DHCP from here. I only want to see DHCP
packets. And now uh click on the DHCP. So you can see we created packets
forward this packet. Okay. So you can see computers are
saying no but router is accepting this. And now
this is like a duplicate. So now router send a packet. If you open this packet
so you can see here this packet the packet is a DCP packet.
Server process it. The DCHCP server received discover packet. Okay.
And we do not have the previous IP address for this computer. There is no
reserved binding. Okay. So this laptop do not have the binding. So we have to
give the new IP address from the DHCP pool.
We have to assign a new IP address from the pool what we have configured. So
from this pool the router is going to assign IP address. Okay. Click on again.
So now you can see we forward the packet again and this packet.
If you open this you can see the DHCP client received a
DHCP offer packet. And if I click here on the packet
so you can see that computer is trying to give me you can see your client
address is 121. So server has given me this. 121 IP and here also it has
written the DHCP client send the offer packet. The DHCP client receives offer
packet and send the request packet now because I'm okay with this IP. Okay. So
we are okay with this IP but we have to send the request packet.
So this packet what we are forwarding now this is called request packet. Okay.
say hey computer yes I'm okay with this IP this is my 121 address okay so this
is my MAC address can you please share me further details so we forward this
packet to the router and router give me final confirmation
from this packet which is called DCP acknowledgement so you can see we got all the details
this is this is my IP this is the gateway this is the computer MAC okay
All the details we got here. And now if I go to real time
if I show you show IP DHCP binding. Okay. So you can see 1.21.
So this computer got 1.21. So this computer has MAC address.
You can verify command prompt by typing ip config /all.
Okay. So you can see this 0D 056509 is my MAC address. And if you check this
is the same MAC address in my DHCP binding. So what is DHCP binding? very important because in case if your
computer gets shut down okay computer if your computer shut down for 10 hours 5
hours because you go home from office and the next day you come okay so you
you will get the same IP or not let's see okay so if I click on DHCP
you you can see we got the same IP why because we already have the reserved
binding for this IP and MAC Okay. So, normally it is like uh 24
hours to 48 hours. So, uh it is uh like 1 to 2 days. If you shut down your
computer till like 1 or 2 days, the IP will not change. But if you open laptop
after 5 days, 7 days, 10 days. Okay. So, then maybe you will get a different IP.
Okay. But if you want that computer will always get this IP then we have to do
manual uh uh like we can give static IP or we can do the manual uh what we call
DHCP binding.
Okay. So I have shown you the offer request acknowledgement packet in the packet tracer. But if you try to capture
on the wireshark so you can see here this is the discover packet. So where source port is 68, my computer is 68,
port number 67 is my uh server ID. Okay.
Uh so you can see here also that this is the DHCP discover packet to find the DHCP server. So you can see in the
wireshark DCP discover, offer, request, acknowledgement, four type of packets.
So offer means just uh finding the server. So once we find the server then
server will give me offer. Offer means the server will give me some IP like this is my offer to you 10002.
But you can see there is no subnet mask only the server is giving me only IP.
The server or detail there server is only giving me IP. It is not giving me
DNS. It is not giving me subnet mask. It is not giving me lot of things. So it is
only giving me offer means just show them the IP but do not give. Okay.
Because when you say discover find the DHCP server then server will give you
offer just uh for showing you the IP. But when you properly request when you
request okay yes yes I'm very much interested in this IP. Can you share me
further details in the last you get all details in the acknowledgement packet.
So you can see this is the acknowledgement packet and you can see we got the acknowledgement packet here.
Okay. And this is the subnet mask. So this is the lease time that you are getting this IP for 3 days, 4 days, 5
days. Okay. Depend on company to uh company or uh related to machine to
machine Windows or computer. Okay. So this happened actually
this happened. Okay. That client broadcast a discover
message. Then server send offer message by giving some IP address. Then computer
confirm yes yes I'm okay with this IP. And then finally server share all further details to the client. So this
is also called dora process. Then this is called Dora. D O I A. So
this is means discover, offer, request and acknowledgement. So this could be your interview question. Okay. Tell me
about Dora. So you can say that Dora means discover, offer, request, acknowledgement. So discover means
client send first packet and to discover the server to find the DHCP server and
then server will check the IP address from the pool. then assign the IP address to the client. Then client
request okay yes I'm okay with this IP can you share me further details and all
final configurations you will get in the acknowledgement packet so this is a fourstep way fourstep protocol Dora
discover offer request acknowledgement think.
So this is like I have added some extra content also if you guys want to read more and more. So this happens like when
your computer boot up. Okay. So it send a discover packet.
Okay. Then uh then we actually DHCP offer we get the offer we check that IP
then uh you can see we request the IP and then finally we get the
acknowledgement. So if we get uh and what happens because every time you get
a lease right after some time like uh you will get
after 2 days 3 days uh you will uh you will not get the same IP at that
time you request to the server can you please assign the same IP again and the
server will assign you the same IP again. Okay. So that is called basically DHCP uh uh what we call renew. Renew for
renew I think there is a message called uh DHCP request only. Yes. So for lease
time activation again we send request and server will do all the steps again and again.
Okay. So just have a good read about this.
First packet will be broadcast and remaining all packets will be uniccast. So sub
yes kind of but depends.
So the best way because people can ask you okay it is all like uh it's a
broadcast packet or a uniccast packet okay so what I suggest you
uh you can see here discover offer request acknowledgement
every packet is on the 255 means all these are like broadcast okay but some
in wireshark if you check it will will show you all broadcast Okay. Uh but if
you check any content uh so you can say discover is broadcast. Okay. So means
client side messages client most of the client most of the times
client send broadcast packets and server sends unique cast packets. Okay. So
that's the theory. So broadcast is done by client means like broadcast discover
or request. Discover request sent by client. So these are broadcast packets.
And offer an acknowledgement packet sent by a server. So these are uniccast.
So if my DCP server is in other network then it will work. Yes. Yes. Gotham. We will learn that also.
How we configure lease time IP for 7 days?
Yes, we can increase.
Okay. So, you can see here guys. Uh,
yeah. So this is the time like le is 7 days. So you have to give this command le space 7 and then 0 0 mean 0 hours 0
minutes. So le is 7 days then hours like then minutes. So keep it like
for 7 days le 7 0 0 in the pool and uh then all computers will get the EP for 7
days. So this is how you configure but I think le command will not work in the
packet tracer. So if I say show ipdcp pool ABC
so the lease command is not working here in the packet tracer. Okay. So maybe you
can try in GNS3 or in our labs.
So guys, I think uh uh like uh for 1 hour like we can have class tomorrow
also because uh I feel like I'm too tired today. I'm not able to go further
today. Okay. So it's better to do tomorrow
because I do not want to teach in a low energy. Okay. So tomorrow we will cover uh DHCP
in my racks. Okay. So we will I'll teach you in the racks what lab access we have
given you and also we will try to cover tomorrow telnet and SSH okay but yes
tomorrow we will be having a class for 1 hour at least okay and if anybody is not
able to attend tomorrow class they can watch that one hour video
sir why client broadcast multiple times because sham that is how they have made
these packets. Okay. So means whenever the guy who
invented DCP, right? Because we do not have the
um uh we do not know where is my DCP server, right?
I don't know where is my DCP server. That's why I'm sending broadcast. Okay.
Yes. Tomorrow at same time 9:30 to 10:30 approx. Okay. Okay. See you all
tomorrow.

