Very quickly, let me explain to you.
Okay, so topic for today is VDO,
okay, and other topic is Stratus, okay?
So these two things we are going to discuss today, right?
So what this topic gonna do for you,
what this concept's gonna do for you, okay?
So nowadays, guys, whenever you launch any operating system,
okay, you need hard disk, obviously.
Mostly, nowadays, we launch the operating system
as a guest machine or the virtual machines.
It means underline this OS, you have some program,
some tool, okay, based on the concept called virtualization.
Okay, one of the program who will give virtualization to you
is Oracle VirtualBox, okay?
And inside and behind the virtualization tool,
you have your hardware, okay, real hardware.
I can say physical RAM, physical CPU,
physical, real physical hard disk you have.
Or maybe sometime, we have some
operating system also in between.
So right now, if you guys talk about my current concept
or my current setup,
so I have my base laptop with me, okay?
On the top of the laptop,
I have Windows operating system, okay?
And on the top of Windows operating system,
I have virtualization tool,
that's called Oracle VirtualBox
that we keep on using till date, okay?
And on the top of VirtualBox,
we have installed some of the operating system
that is called Virtual Machine.
Okay, one of the example is, in my case,
is Red Hat Machine 8, okay?
And this operating system is a virtual machine.
It look like real, work like real,
but whatever the hardware they have, okay?
Technically, they are sharing the hardware
from your base OS or from base physical RAM.
So these are real RAM, real CPU, real hard disk,
and this OS is sharing those resources, okay?
It means whatever hard disk you provide to this guy.
So if I log in to my Red Hat 8 virtual machine,
and if I log in over here,
and if you run the command every time L,
this command, you know,
it will show you the hard disk that we have.
Or let me run with less command
to see the output from the first line.
So this is the one of the hard disk I have,
SDE with 100 GB in size.
So it look like a real hard disk, a real person.
We have real data we are storing.
But internally, this 100 GB hard disk,
100 GB hard disk is actually,
so let me give the name here.
So in my case, I have the hard disk called Dave SDE
of 100 GB in size.
But this hard disk, okay,
is actually internally,
they are getting from your real hard disk.
So in my windows, I have a real hard disk of maybe 500 GB.
So out of 500 GB, 100 GB I have provided
to my virtual machine.
Now, how you provide this 100 GB to a virtual machine,
that would be your choice.
Either you can provide this hard disk
as a static or dynamic.
Means you go to a base system called Windows and say,
out of 500 GB, 100 GB I want to reserved,
or you can think the word called static.
So this 100 GB only belongs to me.
If other, if I put my data, if I don't put my data,
none other virtual machines or you as a Windows also,
would able to use it.
It is reserved for me.
So here I'm just giving the word called static.
Okay, but if you give 100 GB hard disk to the OS
and you tell the Windows, I'm taking 100 GB hard disk,
but it's dynamic.
It's not reserved.
Okay, so you can think to this virtual machine,
I am giving maximum 100 GB size
as much as they keep on data,
I will dynamically increase the size behind this.
Okay, I'll keep on picking the space
from the physical hardware dynamically.
Maximum size will be 100 GB.
But if this OS is not using this 100 GB
and other virtual machine or you as a Windows
won't be used as they can use.
Okay, so it's the dynamic in nature.
Okay, so technically in this storage world,
static is known as thick and dynamic is known as thick.
And this is known as provisioning.
Okay, so mostly guys in the virtualization world,
mostly we pick the hardest in the thin provisioning.
Even though guys, if you, I don't know,
have you noticed or not,
while installing any OS in virtual machine.
Let me show you what happened while installing this
is coming up, right?
So while installing any OS in the world,
in, let me use some name, Red Hat 8 something, okay?
So if you click next, if you click next, okay?
And if you click create, if you click next,
now here, this is the, you know, this option always come.
So you want to create dynamic allocation or fixed.
Dynamic means thin provisioning or thick provisioning.
So if I say dynamic allocation,
so here I am saying 100 GB I want to provide to my,
this OS, but technically it gives you an illusion
to your operating system or virtual machine
that I'm going to install right now,
that they have 100 GB hard disk,
but internally, physically, they won't consume 100 GB.
They won't reserve 100 GB, okay?
They won't reserve 100 GB.
So as you start putting the data in this OS,
dynamically they keep on picking from base,
a real physical hard disk.
So this was the meaning of thin provisioning
or the dynamic allocation over here, okay?
So this is a very basic concept.
You guys might know this,
just want to give you this concept because,
because if you have a requirement,
if you have a requirement that inside your Red Hat,
especially Red Hat version 8, I'm talking about, okay?
And you want to create any drive
that is also known as the mount point, you guys know.
Okay, and guys, you know, on the top of drive,
we always mount a device that is called partition.
Partition, and partition is sometimes also known as device,
and it is also known as sometimes file system, okay?
What do you need?
You need some kind of base hard disk, okay?
So what I'm talking about, okay?
What I'm talking about in the Red Hat 8,
if you want to create any partition
that you want to mount on some device,
but you want this partition have a dynamic allocation
that is called thin provisioning, you can do this.
So we might can create a drive,
a partition of let's say 200 GB,
but we are not actually reserving 200 GB from our hard disk.
We're just providing this, okay?
And as the data grow,
they will keep on picking from the real physical hard disk.
Something like this.
Okay, am I use case of this?
Maybe you have a real hard disk of, let's say, 100 GB,
and out of 100 GB, you want to get multiple partition of it,
and everybody's 50 GB.
This is 50 GB, 50, 50, 50,
even though we are allocating 200 GB in size,
but real size is 100 GB only, okay?
So what do we have?
You provide more, right?
You provide more, just think in the mind
that nobody gonna use full,
but everybody might have a minimum requirement.
They say, if you don't provide 50 GB,
I won't able to work.
You know, sometimes if you guys ever install Windows,
so in the Windows, if you don't create 30 GB partition,
you won't able to install it.
Just for example,
even though we're not gonna consume 30 GB completely,
but there's a minimum requirement.
But we don't have 30 GB available,
so we can take the help of dynamic provisioning
or thin provisioning, same thing,
and say, yes, I will provide 30 GB to you.
Internally, we don't provide,
but just we give the illusion that you have.
And other also use cases we have,
very lot of use case we have on this concept.
But if you want to create a drive,
that it look like they have so much space,
but internally, physically, they don't have.
Yeah, obviously, when they start storing data,
then will they start getting the real space dynamically,
but till date, they won't get it.
But they will only have a illusion that they have.
Okay, so if you want to do this,
there's a lot of way we can do,
but one of the tool and software available
is called Stratix.
By this tool, or by this software,
we can create a partition or the file system
that will work in a thin provisioning grid.
Okay, so let me directly jump to this practical
and show you how you can take the help of Stratix.
Okay, so let's go and check.
So for doing this demo, what I'm going to do,
I'm showing this demo on my Reddit 8.
And for showing this demo,
I'll go and attach one extra hard disk.
Okay, some extra hard disk to this OS,
to my virtual machine.
This hard disk I'm talking about.
They look like real hard disk to this OS.
Okay, so I'm going to add one hard disk.
And if you want to add any extra hard disk to the OS,
you guys know from my partisan classes,
let me power off first my red hat.
Okay, then in the virtual box, if you go to settings,
and in storage part,
I already have a lot of hard disk connected.
Okay, for that purpose, maybe.
Well, let me add one more hard disk over here.
There's option to add new hard disk,
create a new hard disk, click next.
Okay, next.
And I'm going to add a hard disk of let's say of size 100.
Some name, let's say 101.
So this hard disk,
what happened?
They are not allowing us, me to create, why?
Because this is 100 GB in size.
This guy is not allowing me to create.
100 GB.
So this is the notice you have to write.
And let's say, just giving some unique name.
So let's say this is your one hard disk you attach
to show this demo.
So this is my reddit eight.
Attach one, this hard disk 100 GB in size.
For this OS, I think this is the real hard disk,
physical hard disk.
Okay, just thinking this way.
And I'm going to attach one more hard disk guys here,
because there's one more topic I'm going to take today
called VDO.
There's also require one hard disk to attach.
Okay, to save our time,
I'm going to attach one more hard disk here.
Create a new device, click next.
And again, this is 100 GB in size.
Let's say some name I'm giving.
Okay, okay, and let me start my OS.
So this OS, we have some two hard disks.
This OS think this is a real hard disk.
So let's let these guys think
that they have the real hard disk.
So now, think this is a real hard disk.
So on the top of this hard disk.
Okay, so I'm going to use this hard disk
for implementing strategies.
Stratus, this hard disk I'm going to use to next topic
for today is called VDO.
Okay, so what is the user status I explained to you
if you want to create a file system.
File system, that is have a capability,
have a dynamic provisioning, then the status you can use.
Okay, so let me do this.
Multiple commands I'm going to run.
So what I'm doing here,
I'm creating one extra node for you.
A node for you.
And plus, I'm logging to my OS with PuTTY.
So I can very easily copy paste in my windows.
Remote login I'm doing.
I believe the name of my OS.
Where is the PuTTY?
Okay, so I think my IP of my OS is maybe 101.
Let me check, yeah.
So the same OS, okay, let me increase the phones.
So the same OS, this is a reddit8.
So rather than I'm logging from here,
I just log in from PuTTY.
And if you see guys, I added some extra hard disk.
Okay, so one of the hard disk they might have added
is maybe which one?
This one, HDF, 100 GB in size.
So maybe guys, I think I by chance added 1,000 GB size,
that's okay.
So one of the hard disk where we will work today
is Dave HDF.
So this is the hard disk I'm going to use.
Okay, so I think this is a real hard disk.
Okay, so let me share in the commands also.
This is a very basic command.
In my partisan classes, we have done these commands
and these things a lot.
Those who don't know about partisans
will share the videos to you.
Okay, where we cover about partisans and other things
in very much basic still barrier one.
Okay, so let's say the hardest name
is where we will work is SDF.
And from this hard disk,
I'm going to create a partisan or the file system,
but this partisan file system will be dynamic.
How are we gonna do?
So here we will go and take the help of Stratis
and for this you have to install a software called Stratis.
I think software name is Stratis-T.
Okay, so I'm using this command to install the software.
Let's see if my YAMM is there.
Okay, and one more software I need.
Let me install this one or maybe no.
One more software I need that will give some extra command.
Let's call it Stratis CLR.
So two software we need.
I'm just sharing the commands to you.
So my local YAMM is not working.
It's not working.
So one minute guys, let me check my YAMM very quickly.
It is not mounted.
Actually, when you attach your DVD,
so if you log in to your account,
in the graphical, they automatically mount for you.
So my DVD is actually mounted in some folder.
So if we log in in the graphical, they automatically mount
and my YAMM is configured over there.
So what is YAMM?
All the things you guys know.
So nothing very technical here.
So I just need, obviously, I would like to install
the software, so I need, yeah.
I see the automatic, they mount.
It was not there.
So my DVD has been mounted.
So let me install the software.
And Stratis guys, behind the scene is one kind of program.
So to start the service of this, okay.
So starting service, we can use start command on Stratis D.
If you want to make it permanent,
you can use enable command to make these guys permanent.
So finally service started, there's no fail
and everything is working great.
Obviously, maybe it's good practice
to check if the service is running or not.
So we can take the help of system CTA status.
So my service is running great, okay.
And this is service to manage your blog device.
Means your hard disk.
Blog device means your hard disk, okay.
To create a flexible file system.
That's what we are going to do, okay.
So how we can do?
So for this, okay, in the Stratis, we have a concept.
If you want to create a partition
or the file system, you require
to take the space from somewhere.
So technically guys, they don't take the space directly
from the real hard disk.
What do we do?
We provide all our real spaces to this box.
And from this box, they are going to pick the space.
And this box guys is known as pool.
It is something like this, you guys know about LVM.
So this hard disk you can think as a physical volume.
This thing is a volume group
and this is known as logical volume.
Okay, the thing in this.
So this term is not we use here,
but you can think in this way.
So if you want to create a partition,
that is a dynamic partition.
So they take the space from the pool, okay.
And pool will get the space from the real hard disk.
So I don't have a pool right now, how I know.
So if I write the Stratis command
and as a pool list, I don't have any.
Okay, so what I'm going to do,
I'm going to create a pool.
You can give a pool a name, let's say my pool.
And from which hard disk you want to take the space.
So hard disk that I would like to use
or my real hard disk is this one.
Now we can say pool has been created.
Okay, and because this hard disk has 100 GB,
so 100 GB size we can take physically.
Okay, so that has been created.
Okay, now the pool has been created.
Now from this pool, we can create a real physical hard disk.
Okay, so how we can create, so pretty simple.
We can say Stratis, even though we can guys go for help.
So you do want to create a pool that we created.
Now we want to create a file system, yes.
So here we can say, I want to create a file system,
means a partisan.
Okay, create, you can give your own partisan name.
Okay, so this is my partisan one.
Okay, and you want to create a person from which pool.
So my pool name is this one, this one.
So now your partisan has been created.
Okay, so before I create any partisan,
let me show you one thing.
First, let me copy this command.
I'm running this command right now.
Okay, so if I run the file system,
this, how many partisan we have?
None, but as soon as I create,
you can see new partisan.
Okay, so as soon as you click,
you will see one new partisan's gonna come up.
Okay, so if you see guys, there's new partisan
they have created, okay, with this particular name.
Okay, so this, so guys, this is the way
you can create a partisan over here.
Okay, and now, because this is a partisan,
and you're gonna use the partisan,
obviously you have to mount it.
And guys, here, normally partisan guys,
after you create a partisan, you have to format.
You don't have to format here.
Stratas will auto format for you.
You just mount it, and for mounting,
you just create a folder, let's say my,
as partisan name I'm giving, and I'm mounting this guy.
So this is my device, and actually they created
behind the scene with the mount point.
So nothing technical, and they mount it.
So you can see it, if you notice guys here,
they give this person of one terabyte in size.
Even though I don't have a physical,
I don't have physical one terabyte hard disk,
but they give you an illusion that they will provide
one terabyte hard disk to you, okay?
So this is all virtual, but as you start providing,
putting the data, they keep on putting dynamic,
they keep on picking the space.
Obviously they don't have physical space filled,
they stop there.
But maybe some of the use cases we require
to show you a lot of space we have.
But here, they don't give internally,
but they give you an illusion that yes, we have.
So this is how you can, and after you put the mount it,
you make it permanent in the FS tab,
you guys know how we put in the FS tab.
You can put the data, whatever you want to do,
that would be your choice, okay?
So this is how the strategies work.
And if you want to do some more thing in the strategies,
okay?
So example, maybe if you talk about file system,
okay?
So in the file system, if you see the help,
so we can also destroy it, rename it,
create a snapshot, so we can think it's like a copy
or backup, something like this,
or point in time backup, if you know, okay?
So we can do further things also,
we see how to create a file system, list,
we can also destroy and create a backup,
copy of this.
So whatever data you put in this person,
we can create a backup of it, okay?
So those things also we can do.
So pretty straightforward topic,
but very useful, I explained to you.
Now, something like this,
we are going to explain one more topic.
Now, what can we do?
Let's say we have one more hard disk, okay?
And from this hard disk, I am going to create a partition
that I mount in some drive or mount point.
And what I want as I start putting my data in this drive,
automatically my data go obviously to my real hard disk,
but I want as soon as they go to real hard disk,
my data automatically optimized.
Or I can say they will start storing in the compressed form.
Compressed format, okay?
So normally guys, there's a lot of software
come in the market where if you put the data on the hard disk,
you have to compress it manually,
you have to properly optimize it,
create a data structure,
depending on what further you want to do.
But there's one tool where we can,
do a disk optimizer automatically, okay?
There's the role of VDO.
So we search about Red Hat VDO.
So it is a tool to optimize your data, okay?
Compression and something like this,
in the going to do virtual data.
I'm so sorry guys, not disk,
it's virtual data optimizer, okay?
So how we can do for this?
We need one extra hard disk that I already attached.
So I did that I'm going to use right now is VDSDG.
This hard disk I would like to use.
Again, video come with the software.
So let me use yum install to install VDO software.
Why?
I mean, they don't ask yes or no,
they like to install for us.
Okay, as the command that I write here,
just take a photo, click a photo of this commands,
but I'm not sharing any document right now.
Okay, take a screenshot of this command
so you can practice strategies, okay?
So video software has been installed, okay?
Now, if you see how many video hard disk we have right now,
none, because we haven't created yet.
So now we can tell the VDO I want to create new hard disk.
So here they ask, okay, can you tell me
what is the name of the hard disk?
Or maybe you can use the full name,
have a name keyword means as a field name.
So let's say my name is my VDO one.
Okay, what is your real device name
or where you want to pick the hard disk?
So I would like to use the hard disk name, this one,
what I have as a real hard disk.
So this hard disk I would like to use, okay?
And this hard disk may be size of 100 GB or 1000 GB.
So you want to create a new partition.
So what is the size of this partition?
This is called logical size.
So they have option called video logical size.
In megabyte you have to give, right?
So let me give 10 GB, okay?
So if I hit enter, they are creating a new compression
device and this is your real device name.
And you also can search, this is the device
they have created for you, okay?
This device is created, we can think new device come up.
Okay, new device come up.
And so guys, technically, even though there's one more thing
you can do, there's option called video status.
Okay, here they give you an entire summary
and they say you have one device with this name
when you modify created, okay?
This device is activated right now.
But if you search, okay, does this device has any compression?
Yes, so compression is enabled, okay?
So other things also they are doing for you, okay?
But compression, what I was talking about, they have.
Okay, and because this is a new hard disk they created,
so we have to always format it.
So name of my hard disk that they created is this one, okay?
So if you want to use any hard disk, you have to format it.
So let me format with XFS, the way you normally format
other parts also.
So they formatted this hard disk and after the hard disk
formatted, you mount it the way you normally mount it
and put in the FS step to make it format.
So they're formatting it and after this I can mount,
let's say my VDO, so I'm mounting this particular device
on the top of this.
So this is also because we have created 10 GB size,
so 10 GB partition has been created.
But interesting thing is what data I put
in this particular drive automatically
will compress for you.
And to verify this, there's a command
that's called video stats, okay?
So this command will tell you what,
how much the size is using, say a saving.
Okay, right now we don't have any data
or maybe we can put in a human radar format.
So my base hard disk is 1000 GB size, okay, 98%.
Right now there's no data.
But if you start putting data,
it'll show you how much space they are saving for you
by obviously by doing compresses, okay?
So there's two different concept guys,
video status, straight dish.
So depend what you want to do,
you can use accordingly the particular tools
and the technology, okay?
So this is one of the topic guys.
Anybody who is going for RSCSA examination,
okay, that's I'll recommend, okay?
So either one question they ask you about video
or maybe come in studies.
So you have to practice both.
Okay, so maybe in your exam is either video question
going to come up or status question.
Any one of the questions going to come up.
So for the exam perspective, practice both.
Okay, so that's one thing.
Okay, let me take one more last topic for RSCSA.
I think this is left.
I think Krone 10.
So I think in the last class,
a lot of guys confused with Krone.
Krone is NTB service.
That is a different topic altogether.
But if you want to go for Krone 10,
how we can work on it.
So let me explain to you.
Okay, so it is something like this.
If you want, if you have some program
or a command, same thing.
Command and if you want some command
will automatically run for you.
Okay, maybe let's say backup commands you have.
And you want every day at 11.30 night
automatic this data to backup.
Or every at this point in time,
I will send a mail and a report to my admin or to manager.
Okay, so any program, any command
you want to schedule it for some particular time.
It is something like your calendar,
alarm and something like this.
Okay, so this command program also sometimes
is called job scheduling.
So let me guys come with a program called KroneTab
and using this KroneTab we can schedule our program.
Okay, so anybody who know about Jenkins,
Jenkins is a big tool that they do lots more things for you.
KroneTab is only for running some commands
at some particular point in time.
For example, if I show you in right now,
I don't have this particular folder created.
Let's say my email,
this folder is not available in my computer.
But I want, this is my current time.
I want eight, seven.
Okay, when did this time come up?
10th July, 2021 morning eight, seventh minute.
When this time come up,
automatically this folder get how we can.
So for this, we can take the help of KroneTab with E,
means we are going to edit some job for us.
And here guys, we can give time.
How? They follow some syntax.
First, you have to give the minute,
then you have to give R,
at which R you want to run it.
The D of the month,
then month, or then the, sorry, it's not D.
I can say date of the month,
and then the day of the week.
Then your command name, audio program name,
and this program is sometimes also known as job name.
So let's say I want to run my job.
Okay, or my command name is called mkdi,
with the folder called Maya Vimal.
So this command I want to run when the date is,
let me check in my computer right now,
according to my computer.
Okay, I want to run on 10th of July.
So date is 10th, July means,
here you write in one, two, three, four,
July means seventh month.
What is the day, Saturday?
Or maybe you can say, I don't know the date,
I can say start.
What would the day of the week would be?
Just match with anything.
And at what hour, morning at, at o'clock,
a minute.
Let's say I want to run at eight minute.
Okay, that's all.
So this is syntax guys, you have to follow.
So let me save the syntax for you.
Okay, then we do it.
So now this is the one new job has been created.
Maybe also we can list the job.
This is one job we have created.
Okay, and right now, again, I'll show you,
this folder is not yet created.
But as soon as this time match,
okay, 10th of July, morning eight, eight minute,
okay, automatically this folder,
or whatever the job you run, it will be done for you.
So exactly eight, eight minute,
you can see this folder will be created.
So you will wait for some second and you'll see,
now it is your choice,
you want to run any command or program,
a script, just put your command and script over here,
they will run for you.
So now guys, it's eight minute done.
And now if you see, this folder was not there,
but it's created.
Okay, so guys, this is about crontab.
Some more syntax they support.
For example, if you want to edit the crontab again,
if you edit, so if you want to run a job at every hour,
so you can write start here, or every hour 500 for example.
So this start means one hour, five minute,
two hour, five minute, three hour, five minute.
So every hour they're going to run.
We're going to run the job every minute.
So it may be the minimum is every minute.
So every minute they are going to run this job.
Obviously there's no meaning to create a folder every minute,
but maybe backup of mail,
something you want to run every minute that you can run.
Or maybe if you run your job every five minute.
So these are the syntax.
And some more syntax like this,
just go and check the document.
Online crontab is very commonly used program.
So some more syntax you will get.
So after every minute, every five minute,
okay, you will run your particular program.
So directly or maybe backup or something like this,
you can have.
Okay, you can get as much as job,
you can add one more line, one more job come up,
and you want to delete the job,
just go and delete the line and save the file.
So now there's no job left.
Okay, so that's the thing we can do.
Maximum job we can always say for a year.
So now this particular job, what I write in the last,
that we run in next year,
because same time gonna come after a year.
So minimum we can set is for minute,
maximum we can set for year in the crontab.
So pretty simple guys, nothing very complex here.
More syntax you can find like this
on the document of the crontab,
but there's whole and sole idea of the crontab.
So that was,
that was like coding.
So guys, these are the only topic left.
Otherwise we have done lots of detailed discussion
on my other topic from very basics to advance.
Okay, so as far as RSA perspective,
we have covered lots more topic and more practices,
use cases, a lot of practical, a lot of tips
I have given you in my classes,
all the video guys we have done in YouTube.
So those who by chance miss other classes
in YouTube IAC rise, you can get the further topics.
So if you also want to revise, you can revise the things.
Finally guys, I just want to conclude this training
officially from the Linux world and from the IAC rise.
Okay, so there is the conclusion of RACSA training.
RACSA training.
But very important training track it is,
lot of demand in the market,
especially in the global exam perspective.
So I really recommend,
soon we will do an exam bootcamp also,
those who registered with the exam.
Okay, so you guys will be prepared for the exams.
Okay, so that's all guys from my side,
all the best for the further tracks,
for the future things and future, your career path.
Okay, any quick queries guys,
if you have, you guys can ask.
Manish, you can see anything about networking.
So we have a lot of networking classes we have done,
just go to those classes we have seen,
we explain a lot of things about networking there.
For summer students, we have given lots of video classes.
Okay, we have given a lot of video classes of RACSA.
Okay, so most lot of concern we have already covered,
so just contact your respective group.
They will provide you the link
from where we have provided other classes.
Okay.
Okay.
Vinay, star slash five means every five minutes.
So you run job every five minutes, you can run it.
Okay.
So Himanshu, we will give you a particular video
where we will give you the link from where we have provided
other classes of RACSA.
So if you have any questions,
you can ask them in the comment section below.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So Himanshu, we will give you a particular video's name.
Okay.
That is only required for the exam preparation.
Okay.
For knowledge, obviously you can go for all the videos,
but only for exam preparation, we'll provide you,
tell you what only video you have to watch.
Yes, Siraj, you can give a cron tab.
If you're under a script,
you can give the path of your best script.
Okay.
Skip your best or Python.
So where the script located, give the path,
cron tab will go and run the script for you
in the schedule.
Okay.
So, that's all guys for today.
All the best.
Obviously we are concluding this training RSA.
Take care, bye.
