So alright guys, let's continue with the next part.
So last from couple of days, we was on the discussion of user add program, right?
So in the Linux, we have just one command for creating the user.
So either you can use a command called user add, or there's one more link of this command called add user, same command and no difference.
And almost all the core guys of Linux, they know about this command.
So if you want to create a user, you can use this command, right?
But what exactly happening behind the scene?
Okay, when you run the user add command, what system do we hand the scene where they add the entry of this user?
So those part guys, we have discussed in very detail, right?
So even though I believe now due to any reason, if the user add command gone from your system and been terminated, maybe been corrupt, right?
And even though if you want to create a user, so you know so much internals, right?
That without using the command or the program, you can also create your own user.
Or whether using the user command, if you want to change some power of the user, you can also go and do those things.
Okay, so guys, this is one small task I would like to give you.
So I want you before the next class do very small homework.
Okay, and what I do want to use, let's consider you don't have a user add command available.
It is not working and you have to create a new user in system.
Okay, and what I want when you give the username, it will log into your system.
That's what we want.
So try to create a user without using a user add command or a program.
Let's try this part, right?
So today's topic is a little bit different, very important also.
So those guys who are planning to go for RSC assay global examination.
So today's topic is again one important topic in the examination also.
They always ask plus if you want to set up some real infrastructure in your company or in the industry.
Again, this idea of what I'm going to explain you, we use a lot in the terms of user management.
Okay, so what I mean by this, we will discuss in a minute.
But today's the topic that I'm going to discuss will be auto effects.
The main topic for today would be auto effects.
That's what we are going to do today, right?
So let me start from some basic idea so you can link it.
What exactly I'm talking about.
So this is my Linux operating system.
Okay, and I told you yesterday guys, whenever you create a user, it will do lots of things behind the scene.
One of the things the user add command will do for you is create a home directory.
So whenever you create a user with the user add command.
So this command or this program create a home directory for the user.
And by default, they create a home directory in a folder called slash home.
Let's say if I create a user called Vimal.
So they create a home directory for the Vimal in the folder called slash in the folder called home.
And here they create a folder called Vimal.
Okay, so finally, the home directory for the Vimal that by default, they create a home called slash home slash Vimal.
So this is known as the Vimal home directory.
And what does it mean? Meaning of Vimal home directories.
It means whenever you log in from Vimal either from GUI or from CLI or from remote login, whatever the method you log in.
Okay, after login, Vimal by default landed to this directory.
Or because this is the directory.
So it means after we log in, whatever data Vimal would like to store in a file, those files or those data will maintain inside this folder.
Or because we are storing data or file.
So internally, obviously, right, they store this data in a file in this folder where in some storage in a hard disk.
And where they get the storage from.
Obviously, this file and folder get the storage from Vimal folder.
And where Vimal folder get the storage from slash home folder or from where the home folder get the space from slash folder.
And guys, because we already have discussed the partition, right.
And I told you, slash is one of the partition.
It means, it means, right, if the slash partition is 100 GB in size or 100 GB available.
So maximum space that Vimal can consume is 100 GB.
Because finally, Vimal store everything in this folder or because the folder is getting space from slash.
So if you open the terminal and what do you see here?
Open terminal right now, because whenever you create any user, let's say I'm going to create a user called G1 is my user name, for example.
And they create a directory for G1 in a folder called home.
So you can say G1 folder created.
Because this is a home directory for G1.
It means whenever I log in with the SU command or any other command to use G1, by and for they'll end up in this folder.
Because it's an user, I don't have any data here.
But whatever data you store, you store a file you store or you create a store in this folder.
Because this folder is actually getting the space from slash.
And by chance in my system, in my system, the slash has only 30 GB available.
So maximum space I can give to this user and all the user is 30 GB.
That's what I just want to tell you here.
OK, now why I'm explaining you in this way, because today's topic is highly linked to this concept.
And one of the big challenges is because all the user data, because in our real operating system, we rarely do anything from the root account.
Normally these kind of user log in to our system or to our servers.
They put the data, PDFs, audio, video over there, where they put in your home directory.
So maximum space you can provide to the user is this much or whatever the space you have in a select file.
But you guys know, because we know LVM, if we have a limited space, we can extend the space.
So it's not a big challenge.
The bigger challenge here is due to any reason, if your slash person removed or corrupted, all the data also corrupted.
That is the reason it is recommended.
Don't provide a user space or user storage from the slash.
Always create extra parts and like slash home in your system.
And that is a normal thing your system will do.
If you see here, we have one more folder called slash home.
Because this folder is already created or this drive is already created, having this name, having this size.
It means now any of the user that I have in my system, I have in my system are actually getting the space not from the slash.
They're actually getting the space from a slash home folder because it is an independent drive or independent storage.
So getting the storage from here.
So around 47 GB space I can provide to all of my users.
So even though if there's space left, this is the LVM, I can extend the space by adding more PV.
This part you guys know because LVM or the part since we have already discussed in very detail.
So what is the main topic today?
The main topic is relatively different.
So right now, let me tell you a scenario where I'm going to explain you this concept.
But before this, let me tell you one more small thing.
By default, your user always create your home directory in a slash home folder.
But we have a way we can change it.
But before we change, let me explain you some concept.
Then that will be very interesting to change it.
But before I change, let me launch one more OS because today in today's practical, I need to VM to do this practical, right?
So let me show you what exactly we are going to do.
So let me tell you a quick scenario of the real world.
So in today's world, guys, what happened when any user joined a company?
Let's say I am the one who joined a company.
So my company will create one account for me.
Okay, then one account for me.
Okay, let's say they are the servers they have.
So in this server, they create, let's say the server IP one, they create one account for me with the name called Vimal.
And normally wherever the server is running, normally server is running in the data center.
So we don't physically go there from our laptop.
From our laptop, we are using some networking, using some networking.
Okay, we do remote log in SS or other similar things to log in those systems.
But whatever you do, right, finally, you log into the system.
And finally, after logging, you landed to their home directory slash home slash Vimal.
And because this directory is created in their local hard disk, in their local storage,
means whatever I do after logging by remote log in, or maybe while local log in CLI, GUI, right, every data is stored in this particular folder.
Okay, so challenge here is, guys, because the data is stored in the local hard disk, local hard disk, or I can say in local file system, LFS, right.
The challenge would be, right, if you want to give a user some kind of dynamic storage or some kind of some kind of mobility,
means means in the future, okay, in the future, you have one more system, one more system.
And I want my my user if they're logging to this system, this might be different server.
But after logging, I want my system will will log into same user and password.
So I have to create the same user and password over here, same user and password.
So creating the same password might not be challenging, even though we have other solution also available in the market called LDAP.
Okay, that where we can create a user and password in one single system and everybody will access the same login and password.
This is not the main topic today.
But what I want, if I am here as a human being, as a person, I'm here and I want to have a facility.
Sometimes I will learn to log in here.
Sometimes I would like to log into this system, either remote log in or local log in.
So what I want, I want to use same login name.
I want to use same password.
But the most important thing is after login, I want wherever I landed.
Obviously, I landed to my home directory.
But it doesn't matter guys where I landed.
The important thing is not my home directory name.
The important thing is my data.
So whatever data I store here, I want to receive the same data also from here.
It's not like this, right?
When you log into this system, you will see the different data.
You log into this system, you will have different data.
Okay, I want because I'm not in the same system.
I want wherever I log in to my servers.
Or sometimes you also come here to provide you some chaos or some kind of workstation.
Maybe sometime you work physically.
So maybe you want if you log into this system, we will have the same login and password.
As you log into this system in this workstation, you want to have the same data.
But in this scenario guys, if you store your data in a local hard disk,
because this hard disk is connected here.
So whatever data you store in this system, IP1, it's from the local hard disk.
Because the local hard disk, in this case, if you log into other workstation,
physically, locally, remote login, you won't get the same data.
So it is something like this.
You can think right now from my laptop, if I log into my Gmail account,
and from this Gmail, from my laptop, send some mail and compose some mail,
it is visible in this laptop.
But if I use other mobile from other laptop, whatever data I store from my laptop in this Gmail,
it won't be visible there.
Okay, whatever data I store in my Google Drive from my laptop, it is only visible here.
But if I go to other laptop, it is not visible here.
So that's what I don't want.
I want my storage to be centralized.
I use my mobile phone, iPad, maybe laptops or workstation server.
Wherever I log in from my same account, I want same data could be visible anywhere.
Okay, so in this case, in this scenario, first of all, if you want your data to be visible everywhere,
so don't store anything in your local file system.
Don't store anything in your local storage.
Instead, what can you do?
You can go to some storage server, that's called centralized storage, storage server.
Okay, and whenever any user come up in your company,
create a separate folder for the user for the website, and share the storage.
And link the storage to the system.
Same storage to the system, in all the system.
Link means, you guys know, it's called mount.
So what happened, guys? What happened, right?
So I link this folder, after share, after share this folder, to this folder, the home directory.
Again, to the same system in my home directory.
So what happened finally, when the Vimal log in, to this system where they land, to home directory.
And after we start Vimal writing the data, they store everything in my home directory.
Because internally, the home directory is mounted by some centralized storage.
So finally, your data won't be stored in my local file system.
Internally, they go to these stores.
But next time, after Vimal log in, from the laptop to this system,
again they land it to the home directory.
But in the home directory, again the same storage will be linked or mounted.
So it means whatever data we stored here in some other location, same data would be visible here.
So after Vimal log in, they can see the same data come up.
So whatever data they stored in this system, same data will come up here.
The only thing is, you have to restrict the user and say don't store anything in the local file system.
Store everything in the centralized file system.
And guys, this storage that you know is known as NAS, Network Attached Storage.
And to share this storage, you have to use a protocol called NFS protocol.
And for this, you have to configure your system as a storage server or as an NFS server.
So guys, we have discussed already about the NFS server in some QQ classes back,
where we were talking about the servers.
So what is NFS? You guys know.
How to share the folder in NFS? You guys know.
How to mount? You guys know.
So typically, you can think, let's say this system is IP 100.
So let's say this is my NFS server.
And those systems where user login, where you have the user, where you have the home directory,
where you're going to mount, so you can consider this system to work as a storage client or the NFS client.
Okay, that's what we have to do.
So typically in the company, wherever users work, in your laptops, in your mobile phone, in your workstation,
where they remote login, they login with the same account, same password,
but anywhere they login, they see the same data.
So any system they upload, they can see the same data in the system also.
Why? Because wherever they upload the things in the systems or the server,
they are not storing, and we are not storing in the local storage, in the local file system.
Everything we are storing via NFS in the centralized storage, or I say the storage server.
We're storing everything here.
Okay, so that's how it works.
So almost everything about all the account, all the user, they have some centralized storage team
or centralized storage server, they're managing the storage for the accounts.
And that's what exactly we are going to do.
So technically, whatever we need in this demo, you know how to login, you know how to do remote login,
local login, you know how to create account, you know how to configure the NFS server,
plus you also know how to mount it, everything you know.
But let me show you this demo.
And after you see this demo, then one more requirement come up, one more challenge come up.
And for solving those challenges, you have to use one more concept called AutoFS.
So what is AutoFS? I will explain you in 10 minutes.
But first, let me set this particular demo.
And for this, I have launched two VMs.
Okay, so this VM say because something changed in this VM.
Because this VM I am using my network adapter host only six.
I want this VM also connect with same adapter.
So they have a connectivity.
I go to network and change my network adapter to six and remove the second one.
Okay, so I want the both the guys will have a both the VM have a connectivity.
So I'll connect to the same adapter.
So why the networking? Both the system has a connectivity.
So now we have two VM. Let me show you how to do the setup.
So what I'm doing here, just give me one more please.
So what I'm doing here, I'm making this system as an NFS server.
That's what I am going to do.
This system will be NFS server.
And this system will be my NFS client.
So according to my setup, my setup, this system that has IP address.
IP address called ENP0S3.
So the system that has three IP address.
Okay, so let me write here.
System that has there's two system over here.
One is this one and one is this one.
So three is a system where I'm going to configure as an NFS client.
Okay, and understand one thing guys.
It is an NFS client and this system whatever IP this term would have as an NFS server.
But for us, our user would going to login in the system.
So I'm going to create a user.
Let's say the user name that I'm going to create would be let's say my user one.
So my technical, my human being persons are going to login an IP3 with this particular user.
But after the login, what do they want to do?
I want their data, this user data stored in their home directory.
But home directory is just a directory.
But where did I get the storage from?
Do I get the storage from local storage?
No, I want this guy will get the storage from this storage.
That easy reason we have to configure this term as NFS server.
Let me login to this system and it is the IP address.
How to configure NFS server?
You guys know.
Okay, yeah, you guys know.
So let me first pick the IP address.
But configure NFS server is very simple.
Those guys who miss my class during the region of NFS, I recommend to go through the class.
But otherwise, configure the NFS server is pretty simple, right?
So for an IF config, this is the IP of this number 4.
4 is the IP address of the system.
And what I want in this system, I'm going to create a folder called let's say slash share folder.
And to share this folder.
That's what I want.
Okay, so how to share the folder?
It's pretty simple.
Just first create the folder slash share and share it.
And for sharing, this is a file you have to use.
So this is one file for NFS called exports file.
It is an NFS configuration file.
I'm sharing this part to you.
And here you have to just write that I will share this folder to all of my client.
And I want they also write in this folder.
So I'm going to give a R double power.
I don't want them to stick with any of the permissions.
So I have to give the root power to this guy.
So this is what guys we have discussed in my NFS class.
Typically, I'm sharing this folder.
Start means to all of my client with R double power.
That's all.
Or because you change something in the confine, you can start your services.
So restart NFS or I think NFS server.
Start the services.
Okay.
And plus it is also good practice to check by this command what is shared is shared or not.
So this folder has been shared to all any of the client with R double power.
So now so that's so simple.
One click your server has been configured.
Now anything you don't have to do anything here.
But if you see here, this folder is nothing right.
So right now this folder is sharing some storage from this system for the clients.
But client haven't tried anything.
So there is nothing here.
So I'm in the server.
I before this folder empty.
But who wants to store the data here?
Not this system.
My client going to store it.
Okay.
So let me go to client.
But technically I have created this folder.
And share it why NFS server.
Now it has been shared by NFS protocol.
What my client has to do if they want to use this storage from this system, they have to mount it.
So for mounting there to create some folder.
Let's say I'm going to create a folder called our home.
You can give any name.
I'm is a remote home.
So but otherwise you can give any folder.
Okay.
So this is my client system.
So I'm going to create a folder called our home.
And then I use my mount command say there's one IP.
It's called IP address 169.4.
This system is my server.
This server has shared one folder called slash share.
And I will mount in this folder.
That's what I want.
Okay.
It's mounted.
And you can confirm very quickly.
That is mounted or not.
You can say one minute.
You can say server has shared this folder via NFS.
And server shared 33 GB of their local storage.
And it is mounted in the folder.
So this part is done.
It's very straightforward.
So all the space of their storage, how many stores they have doesn't matter.
Okay.
It is come to my system in this folder.
Now what I want.
I want now in the future any of the user I create.
I want this user will get the storage from this guys.
Okay.
But by chance guys when you create a user by default user will create their home directory in the slash home folder.
And by chance slash home folder is a part of my local storage.
So what you have to do at the time of user creation.
What do you have to do?
Ask the user add command.
Now don't create the user home directory in this folder.
Because this folder will get the storage from local directory.
I don't want this.
I want this user will get the storage from this this this directory.
So create the home directory of this user in this directory.
How to do this?
Let me show you.
So right now guys if you see in our home folder.
The new folder in my local system.
Nothing is there.
But I'm going to create one more user.
Let's say my user one.
And I want this user.
If I run this command.
Okay.
Run this command.
Let me run here.
Okay.
By default user add command create a home directory in the slash home folder.
See here my user one.
It means after I log in with the user to get the storage from this home directory.
And this home directory getting the storage from local storage.
I don't want this.
So what you have to do.
At the time of creating user for example user 100.
I want user 100 will create a home directory in a folder called our home.
And directory name is always the user name.
Because your home directory name is always the same as your user name.
You can change it.
But it's a good practice to do.
Why?
We will discuss in the future.
That's all.
Now guys you know it's very interesting command.
Now user created.
I should set the password also for the user.
It's set.
But the interesting thing is right.
Now the D means home directory we change.
Now home directory won't be created in this folder.
See here my user 100 home directory is not here.
Okay.
Why?
Because I changed my home directory.
And say I want this user home directory would create in this folder.
Now if you go to select our home folder.
And even though if you look at this.
And even though if you log in to the user called my user 100.
Because the home directory name is this one.
So the by default landed to this directory.
See here.
This directory.
Our home.
But the most interesting thing here is right.
Thing here is.
Okay.
Because the our home folder.
Is internally.
Mounted by.
NFS.
It means whatever directory you create.
Either by yourself or user command create.
And whatever you put inside the directory after user log in.
Or you put inside the folder.
Everything would be internally synced or I say copied to this location.
It means if I go to IP four.
Let me go to my server.
This is my server.
This is my IP four.
This is my IP four.
And because I share this folder.
I share this folder to my client.
So whatever clients store it will come here.
So now you see guys in the initially this folder was empty.
Now you can see this directory created automatically.
And if you go inside this directory.
Nothing is there.
Because after user log in that doesn't restore anything.
But if I log in to my user.
With SU command.
Okay.
Log in to my user.
With SU command.
I'm here.
And after user log in.
They store everything in their configuration home directory.
So whatever they store.
The file created.
There is no challenge.
Where the file created?
In the home directory.
Even after I log out.
And again I log in.
Again.
Again they land in the same location.
Same data they see.
Same data they come up.
They check it.
Everything same.
But internally.
Due to any reason.
This entire system go fail.
Entire system corrupted.
Or maybe somebody stolen your local hard disk of the system.
But they never find anything about this data.
You can see the data.
We can read the data.
But everything is not.
Not any of the bit is stored in my local hard disk.
Even though you can terminate your system.
Your data won't lose.
Because everything is been internally stored.
In my centralized storage.
Now if you see this file.
It was created here.
In my network server.
And data also come up.
So it means same system I can launch one more time here.
For example.
I might have one more system here.
Let me launch this system also.
In this time I can create one more user.
Same in VML name.
And after this.
I can again mount to server.
So whatever data you have.
You store.
From here.
From this IP3.
Same data you can also check.
From this system also.
This also.
From mobile phone also.
Laptop also.
Depending where you mounted.
You can see the same data.
Because everything we are storing.
In our.
Centralized location.
Everything we are storing here.
So here.
It doesn't matter.
You are.
You are.
Logging to this system.
Or you are logging to this system.
Everybody is getting the data from here.
So very quickly if I.
Show this demo.
So one more system I launch.
Let's say this is one more system I have.
So if you want to login to my user one.
This system should have same user.
Because NFS won't help you to get the user.
Okay.
So I am going to create one more.
Again I am going to create a folder called.
Let me first create a folder called rhome.
So guys you think.
I am just going to create one more system.
Where I can login.
I can login.
But for this.
This system require login and password.
So that's what I am going to do.
Okay.
So I am going to create a user.
Same user.
My user 100.
And I am going to set it.
I am setting the same.
Home directory.
Slash rhome.
100.
And I am mounting.
The data from.
My.
Server.
Server IP is 4.
And then share the folder called.
Let's share.
And where I am mounting.
In my rhome folder.
Okay.
So let this system give this error.
Because I am a client.
And if you are a client.
You need.
One software to be installed.
So in this system.
I require one software to be installed.
It's called NFS.
Qtills.
It's not installed.
So let me install this software very quickly.
If I have the yum configure.
So guys.
There is a mount.
You have to install this software.
I don't know how yum is configured.
But I believe you got the idea.
What exactly.
I wanted.
To do here.
So mainly.
Let me if I can show you also very quickly.
Mainly.
My intention is.
That you might have multiple workstation or server.
But I want.
Any other server will have the same data.
Where you log in.
So let me log in here.
One more quick thing.
You should see.
Does you have the IP or not.
Because I have seen some network card.
P0 S3.
So I have an IP of different network range.
So.
Just go to this system.
Settings.
Network.
And change.
To host only to this one.
So it's just changing the.
Because I want everybody have the same network range.
This is a CLI.
I can't.
And you know.
From graphic I can't.
I can't do.
Change my network settings.
So there is a command called.
MSCLI.
Connection.
Show.
So it will show you a network card name.
Your connection name is ENP0S3.
So what you have to do.
MSCLI connection.
Down.
Which one.
Of ENP0S3.
Where I change some of the networking.
So I'm.
I'll.
Deactivate my network card.
And I can activate.
To get the latest information.
So the basic command.
I think in the network class.
I might have discussed with you.
And.
That's all.
The new IP come up.
After new IP.
Now we have a connectivity.
Because we have the connectivity.
We can mount it.
Okay.
So IP come up.
Is 169.
Now mount it.
This exact same thing.
What I did in my first client.
Now interesting thing is guys.
In the same system.
Guys this is a new system altogether.
And I have only created the account here.
Created the account here.
Okay.
Even though you don't have to get a home directory.
We'll discuss in a minute.
Why this kind of warning come up.
But let me go to my home directory.
Actually.
One minute.
There is one more.
Concept guys.
You have to understood.
This is not a part of this.
Training.
But you should understood.
For this let me show you one more demo here.
Okay.
Right now my scenario is something like this.
Is not important here to discuss.
But let me quickly discuss.
Right.
I told you guys.
Now what we have.
We have one centralized NFS server.
Okay.
In the NFS server.
They share a folder called slash share.
And inside the share folder.
All the home directory of user created.
For example.
My user.
100 directory.
Intellicated here.
In this folder.
How I know.
If I go to.
My.
My server.
This is my server.
Okay.
So in my slash share folder.
This directory created.
Right.
Okay.
So.
Now we have multiple clients.
This is the client.
This is the client.
And this is the client.
Okay.
Here I create a user called.
My user.
100.
I told you guys.
Internally system.
No.
Never understand the user name.
They understand the ID.
So in the first system.
The user that I created.
That time.
The ID of the user is.
1013.
1013.
And this is user internally.
Stored the data here.
So technically according to the system also.
They never might don't know the name.
They don't know.
The system user who have the ID.
103.
130.
Stored the thing.
Maybe they might show you there.
So if I go to my server.
And if I.
Go to this folder.
And if I do.
L.
L.
You can see.
This ID coming here.
So in the NFS server.
Normally they show you the ID.
Normally.
There's some user in the client.
Who has this ID.
User ID.
They store it.
Now challenge here guys here.
Because now this is a different system.
If you create a same user here.
In different client.
Same user.
ID might be different right.
Because I told you ID will.
They pick in the sequence whatever.
So here guys if you see the ID of this user.
My user.
100 is very different.
Is what?
Is 1000.
But we mounted the same location here.
Okay.
So what happened guys.
Now this user having the different ID.
Trying to write something here.
But this folder say.
This.
Folder is created by user 1013.
And you are different.
And I told you guys.
If one user wanted to go to any other home directory.
They won't allow.
They will do permission denied.
That is a reason.
Right.
That is the reason when you do.
Login.
They are doing.
Permission denied.
Even the username is same.
But they say you can't go to your home directory.
The system never understand with your name.
They understand with your ID.
Okay.
And that is a reason it is recommended.
Don't create a user in all the system.
Otherwise this kind of issue come up.
That is a reason we also have some centralized.
Centralized system.
Where we store all the user name.
The password.
The IDs.
Other things also.
So rather you create here.
You create here.
You create here.
You will ask to get the username and password.
From the centralized location.
And normally the centralized location is known as directory server.
This guys is a very very very vast topic.
And almost every industry in the world.
They use a directory server.
And the directory server guys behind the scene.
Use a protocol called LDAP.
So it is famous with the name called LDAP server.
You guys have heard about the window protocol AD.
Active directory.
So it is a very famous product we use.
So the same concept they use. So in a company
when new user come up
they create a login and password ID in the center system and they connect every system to this guy and
Say I don't want to create a user in this system. All right anybody log into the system either local login or remote login
Okay, your system will go to LDAP server check the login and password from there come to this system
After this we landed to home directory. Home directory is in NFS. So NFS will provide the storage to you
Okay, so LDAP is not part of this training
but if you go to some advanced training of
Like if you go to one of the program of RCA is architect program. So they have one core score. I think three four to
Three four to something right some number even though I have passed this examination
So if you search red hat
this protocol IPA
training
Okay, the protocol IPA. This is the red hat I am talking about identity management
So I think three four to some number three six two sorry, even though I was the first one in India who cleared this examination
Okay, but tons of exam I passed so I never remember the numbers. But yeah, so this is the product they have
Okay, this is purely on
Identity or LDAP all the things so one dedicated course on
So I'm not going for obviously discussing the active services here
But this this kind of product you can plan in the future to learn right?
But right now right now I'm going to for I'm not going for this part. So that is a reason. I'm creating a user
here, but only thing here if you're creating user manually only consider only
Be sure the ID should be seen otherwise
You will see this error. So let me do it very quickly. What I'm going to do
I'm going to create one more user in my client
And let's say I'm a client
having the IP address
Four let's say I'm here having IP four. I'm going to create one more user
With the user let's say new user one
And I want this home directory to be created in the folder called hard home
Okay, the name called new user
Hey, this is not a my client. This is my server actually. IP four is a server. So this is actually four
I'm in the wrong system
So this is four
Okay, so this is my client
So let me create one user called user add with called new
User one and I want this user to create a home back in our home because our home is getting the space from
From
the NFS server. I also want to fix the ID
So guys if you want to set the ID to user you can use also you
So if you use you so they won't give you a random ID or a sequence sequence ID like 32 32
So if you want to set and fix the ID you can use option view. So now this user will create with this ID
Okay, let me set the password also for this user
And if you want to confirm now ID of this user is
new user one
Is
200
Okay, so why I'm doing this because I have one more client and I want this client also have a same ID
And I want this client also have a same ID
Okay format where is my document to share
Okay, so same thing I'm doing here so I have one more client
Okay, I'm going to create one more user here in this client the same user called new
Guys, even though it's independent system
All right
But what you are going to see I'll show you in a minute
My user one same idea i'm going to give
And let me set the password
Okay, and if you see the ID
same
The interesting thing is right now you have two system
IP of this system
Is five
So let's say this is five
If I think this is three
So my client me as a user
Okay as user a person either I log in here or log in here you see the same data
Let me show you so for this. I am going to use a putty
To to do a remote login to visualize this part
So I am logging to a system called ip3
Sorry ip is 169
So what i'm going to do
So you log into any of the system your choice 169.3
169.3
Okay, here i'm logging with the user called no new
User
One with password
Byte for where you landed home directory, but after this is new user
Nothing is there. Let me create some file
test
Dot txt file
And let me store some data
something something
This file created
I can see the file
But right now today i'm logging with ip3
Okay
So i'm logging with ip3 means
means
As a person or a team i'm logging to the system
Or maybe next time this system I crap maybe down maybe
Maybe I don't want to connect to the system any of the reason now my company provided me one new system
The same login a password but important thing is not log in a password important the data that I have
So, let's see guys. Let me if I have logger from here
Logger from here
And now my system company provided me new ip address that you can log in for the system also
So I can log in but only thing I wanted in the new system in the new ip again ip is one system
So you guys see an ip same is different right five
I'm looking at the system now
Okay, what I want if I log in to my account with same account
Password obviously I should lend to my home directory but important thing is I want my same data back
It's not coming what's whatever
Okay, actually I forgot to mount this guy let me
Mount also because I have to you know after I create this I forgot to mount let me very quickly
mount
to my server
So I forgot to mount
169.4
IPO server is four the folder the share is share folder
I'm going to mount our home folder
Okay, so this obviously to mount to server right from the server to the client now again come to the same topic
Okay. Now if I log in
Why remote login or local login doesn't matter
to the
ip5
169 to ip5
Means to the system so initially I log in to the system and store data here
But I want to log into this time this time due to any of the reasons. Okay, and what I want after logging same
Um account I want
To obviously first log in lend it to my home directory, but I want the same data. Okay, what happened guys?
It's mounted one minute
Oh, I don't know why no no new user so
One minute
Where am I where login
Uh, I think I've logged into the wrong system
One minute
IPO of this system is
three
Okay
three
Let me write here
Be good the idea what I'm actually I'm doing to do but let me very quickly show you three and in the three
Be good the idea what I'm actually I'm doing to do but let me very quickly show you three and in the three
That I have mounted
Data is mounted and new your folder is there
There's nothing there
Okay, everything is mounted. So in three is good. It looks like good if I go to my ip5
So this is ip5
So this is ip5
And again is mounted
Good our home is there
New user for one folder is there
It's good. No challenge
Okay, so let me do this particular again very quickly one more time
so if I
Log into
Um
From putty, let me increase my phone you can also properly see it
So I'm here
In ip address
Five right I'm logging to this user new user one. I'm into my home directory
I don't have anything. Let me create one file called t dot txt tv
This file created this data we have
Okay, but I created on ip5
Okay, I create on ip5
Or maybe any sense if i5 might corrupt something might happen
But internally, you know, whatever data you create
this file
It's stored in this folder the folder coming dating the data from space from here and this folder
Is is taking the space from here
So maybe after some time you might log out and you would like to connect
And now this time your company say you have one more system come up and maybe older will will terminate it
Or maybe running maybe parallel. Okay, and now you have one more new ip
ip is called 169
And ip3 this one
New ip this one
Okay
So I am logging to this system
The same user got no new user one same user
your password
Okay, i'm logging let landed to my
uh my
Home directory, but if you see you can see this file come up here
Okay
This file this data
I don't know guys last time I've I've stored in the same location
Uh, but I don't know why it takes some time to come up a new file again doesn't come up
Maybe after some time they come. I don't know why it takes some time, but it's come apply last files also come up here
so
but if you can quickly check in your
nfs server
in your new user
This file is there
I don't know guys about how this this been
Taking some time to come up, right?
so
I don't know which folder I mounted here
Four only share or our home
That's nice
And if you go to our home
There's a new user folder
txt
Now it's been updated here
It's updated here
Okay
That is working good. I don't know
Why they have two different view they created but yeah, but you got the idea, right?
What is my main intention here
Okay, so there may come some ip mismatch mismatch means I might have put somewhere else but
Whatever you put either you here or either you put here
Uh, you will get the same thing
So typically guys, uh, we want our
Storage to be centralized. So I would like to give a facility of mobility
Kind of facility to my user. I'm talking about this user
As a person they want to log in this system and this term they won't
They lend it to their their home directory
And after they lend it to home directory or whatever the data
They put anywhere they they are able to see
from
Any of the system right because everything we are storing into my centralized location. There's a main
Moto behind it. Okay
But in this case guys, there's one small challenge
The challenge is
Okay
Challenge is normally
Normally in the nfs server
In nfs server, okay
Normally, uh use you share one folder
But in one folder we are keeping multiple folder for every user. I don't want
To store every day in this one single folder, right? But otherwise there's no no meaning of security
So I want in nfs server via folder call slash share
And this folder contain a directory for wiml
For wiml user they can contain a directory for eric for eric user this folder will get a directory for my user 100
for this user
I want this folder will uh will maintain multiple different folder for all the user obviously just for management on security also
This is what this is one need
Okay, but what I want right I want uh
I want uh, you know what in the client side
There's one process that we have done manually
What I mean by this, right? I want in my client side. Let me let me tell you the scenario
Okay, this is the nfs server
Okay, and in the nfs server we have one home directory slash share
slash new
User one this is a home directory we have
Okay in the nfs server
Okay, and what I want in the client
Okay, I want
uh that when the new
user one login
They lend it to their home directory and the home directory name is called our home slash new user
one
This is the home directory of new user one
Where you can see
So if you go to client
Okay
and here if you open your
Local file you can see the home directory of new user one is our home this one
Okay, so what I want whenever new user login
Obviously it landed over here. Why they will land here because in the past double file it is mentioned over here
But what I want as the user login that particular point in time, right? I am going to store data here
But I don't want to use my local hard disk
I want what did I store here? It will be updated here
So I want this particular
space or drive
Mounted here in my home directory
But when only when I log in
Okay
So until here we have mounted manually right so we
Have mounted this part
This mount we have done and you know it mount all the way
I don't want because maybe in the company hundreds of millions of you. I don't want to
Give all the home directory here
Okay, so I don't want to mount manually this let me unmount this
And why is busy because somebody login here
So, let me log out from putty
Okay, and let me mount again
Okay, so
So what I want I don't want to manually mount it
There's no mount here
So I want as soon as I log in with the new user
Automatically land to this folder because of my past double file
But before I land I want some program automatic mount to my nfs file system
So you guys if you want to mount anything?
There's two things two way
One is manual manual means we use the mount command mount the lvm mount the parser mount the nfs or one is called automatic
And if you want to automatically mount anything then we have one program available
In your language called auto fs
So auto s is one program. It's called automatic file system in mount your file system either normal person normal dvd
iso
Maybe nfs by any other storage maybe mount automatically
Okay, but where you to run this program you to run this program where you want to mount so in my case
I would have to mount in this system
So I wanted to mount in my nfs client system plan means where you're going to log into a system
So either log into command line or yss doesn't matter but as soon you log in
Then you want to mount here
Means typically according to nfs this nfs client
So in the nfs client side you have to configure the system. So let me show you guys right now. This is the client
Where I have a user
Called my user sorry new user. Let's say this example new user one I have
Oh, so what I want as soon I I log in
Automatically mount for me right now guys we see here. They no mount for my nfs
So this command I want automatically which command this command
So let me write here one minute so I want this command that I normally run manually
IP address
four
slash share slash new user one to my our home new user one
Okay, so either you run this command manually, okay, what happened this folder is not exist
Why
Let me get this folder. I don't know why this folder is not there it's there right
Okay. Yeah inside this folder with that that folder is not there. Okay, either run this command manually
Okay, but if you do manually it means let's say in your company you have thousands of users for every user you to do it
I don't want this. I want this command to be run automatically
so for this
For this what can you do? Let me first copy this string from here
And let me open a new terminal let me paste this string there
I want to provide this command to some other program and I ask my program
That in my case is autoreface that this is the nfs server url or the path or the location
I want
You to keep on my monitoring for this user
Name and when you find this user name
Login automatic go to this location
And mount here
Because all the user name home directory is unique and all the nfs server maintain the user name home directory unique to maintain the data
So I don't want i'm just doing ctrl c here. I don't want to mount it manually
Okay, who will mount autoface and for this you have to use a command program called autoface autoface is a one kind of software
You have to first install this particular software
Where wherever you want to mount okay, then
This software has a configuration file it's called autoface.misc
Okay, and in this configuration file you have to tell which part you want to automate and mount
So I want in the last line i'm going to write here that if
The user
New user one login
So I want this file is keep on monitoring for this user
So first you have to write your user name whenever this user login
I want this program go to this url
Okay
Okay, and mount
Where so wherever guys this is your login
They go to this url and mount where in the home directory and normally the home directory name is always user name
Of your name so internally on the flyer they will create a home directory for this name
Or where I want my home directory to be created in this folder
So this folder name you have to write in the location called uh in the different file actually
The file name is called automaster. Okay, I will explain this concept one more time. Don't worry, but let me write here
So here you have to write this option here
So let me explain you one more time what exactly i'm why i'm i'm trying to tell you so typically
There's two configuration file
Over here and let me explain you how it work actually internally
So whenever you run the auto fs services
They always read this file. This is the main
configuration file
What this file will do okay they go to we go to this file
When you run they'll see does this file folder create it if no they will create for you
And they ask
To keep on monitoring this file
Keep on monitoring this file
Okay, and what this file contain this file contain the main data
Main data this file contain this one. So let me write here
This file contain username and say keep on monitoring you might be a thousand user or wherever this user login
Either using local login or sss when this user login
Okay that time create this folder
Inside this folder create this folder
Inside this folder
So our home is already created but create the folder inside this folder
It means technically
If you see in the mount command
Right and the normal mount command this folder automatically created for you
You don't have to worry about they will automatically create for the folder for you
Because this is the home directory of the user it is written in my parcel file
Okay, and after you create this folder
Okay, then go to nfs
And mount this guy to this folder
So typically
Whatever you do manually, you know what you do manually first you always create a your home directory
Okay, then you go and mount
This part you don't have to do this part automatically done by
These two files
But this is a way to work actually internally. So again, I am repeating here. I don't have any mount here
Okay, I write everything in this file this file
plus auto mess file
Now any other user login, they won't do anything
only if
This user login they trigger something they create this folder
And that's less our own folder because we write this folder name in my
my
um
Auto master main file and after they create the folder they go to nfs server and mount it for you automatically with bytefall
And read a write-up or something but if you want to change the read only you can change this option here
You can put here but bytefall they mount into rewritable. That's what we want
Now what i'm going to do i'm going to restart my services
Restart
Automatic
That's all
And also I own after my summary board automatic also happen so you can make an enable i'm not doing here
But you can enable the service for you
So when you start a services automatic, you know what the service do they go to msk file?
That's why you miss they go to master file
And check does this folder exist?
If no, they will create so they will create this folder for you
And right now if you notice guys this folder is empty
But as soon as I log in in my system
I log in must have example. I am logging my system with the new user
one
Okay, and before I log in i'd like to tell you one more thing right now. There's nothing is mounted for nfs
But as soon as you log into this user
Okay
Automatically internally
They will
I think I write the wrong spelling. I believe one
Go to my automask
This is new user
Right, this is a new user one
Right, yeah, so as soon I log in with the new user one
Okay
Automatically they create a new folder right now guys
They're giving us a new different name because I have in my system. Maybe I have one other user created
Uh with a other id
They created for you
And if you see here
They will automate mount for you
right now it is a little bit messy here because
Because in my system multiple user i've created with different id map
Okay, so actually they map with this user id this isn't it is a little bit confusing
Okay, but let me very quickly show you one more example here
So what i'm going to do
Let me create a user
One more user in the home directory called our home
with a user called
key user
With id called let's say 4 000
with key user
Okay
Why this it was created
Thinking about always work properly, but today
Work back, let me create one more user called vuser
With id called 5000
Because of the ldap there's some time this issue come up always
and
And one more thing. Let me mount also. Otherwise, they won't create there
50
Sorry 169 same particular i'm doing i'm just mounting to create the home directory there
169 uh called
four
share folder
Okay
vuser
So i'm creating one new user and the home directory i'm creating into nfs
So this you created and very quickly I check
This id and I also want to check to my nfs server also
So this is my nfs server
You can see in the share folder
Okay
This folder created with this id, that's nice, right?
Now look good
now, uh
Let's say this is scenario which is the one time you have to create now now, let's say we don't have any user
Mounted there's no folder
Mounted and now let's say this is your
Workstation
Okay, this is new system. Nothing is there
Okay, let me read everything click everything and I want in this system
In this system whenever you log in with a ma vuser automatically mounted for you
For this you have to first go to your auto
Master and write your directory
From where you would like to uh, what is your main home directory of your local user here and then
You have to write here which user you would like to monitor. So I want to monitor a user called vuser
So I want to keep promoting this user
And when they log in they go to the server
means this server
Means this server this nfs server
IP 100 169.4
Okay, and here in the slash share folder
You can find the user so let's go there and mount it
That's what we want. Okay, and let me start my services
So my system is keep on monitoring
Okay, right now if you see
There is no directly mounted and right now if you see in our home, there's no folder there
Okay, but let me log in with the user but let me give the set the password also so I can log in
Okay
Okay, so I'm before logging I am going to do allcraft 2 and vuser I am going to log in with the password
Okay, right here this you say you the permission denied
It means something is going good. But why this permission did come up? Let me log out
because of a security reason called sclinx
So guys, there is if you see the warning also come up this is from xlnx issue
So right now for make it simple, I am disabling the sclinx, but there's some boolean way to enable
I'll show you what boolean to enable
I'm disabling sclinx here
Now again, let me log in to vuser
That's good, right
Normally log in but interesting thing if you notice here in this system, I don't have any
vuser home directory created on the fly they created for you
Even though if you go to your graphical initial I show you in our home, there was no directory
Automatically they create a directory for you
After they create the directory automatically mount from the nfs this here this mount already created
It means in your system you have millions of user
Company, you don't have to manually mount again one by one
Just write the entry in this
file called automisk
Once and when they log in auto mount and when they log out after sometime they automatically
But here you don't have to write all these entries you can insert your username you can use star here
Any of the user you log in
they automatically
find the name
And here also because in the server every user will have their own home directory here also we can use star
But by the way guys in the autofest here in this position star doesn't work here you have to write ambassador symbol
So just by one single rule
One single rule any of the user you have
Log in the star is promoted. So if you log in with viml
So they will create a slash rm slash viml folder in your local system
Then they go here they ask do you have viml folder?
Obviously they should have then they they mount for you
And after we will log out after a certain time they will automatically unmount for you
Okay, so this will
be
Automatically done
Okay, this is the use of autofest. Otherwise, you know what?
Otherwise if you log into the system with the viml user first you have to ask some other technical guys
Maybe let's say you are not technical. You are not technical
Somebody come first here log in with root account then they manually mount the viml home directory then as you log in
After log in you do your work you log out again some root admin come up and then mount your directory just for security
But here everything will be automatic as soon as the v user log in automatic this home directory created
Of vuser
And everybody mount it
And as soon as I log out from the v user
Okay after a certain time right there's some time set they will automatically remove
This home directory from here
Okay, and automatically they will unmount from this guy
They will mount from this guy
Okay, why this come up because I have initially log in so as soon I reach this folder
Automatically some intercession event trigger they automatically mount for you. This is not important for me. But yeah, this is the one
Important part to know
Okay
So the guy this is a use of the autoface
So in the bigger environment we store all the username password ids of user in the ldev server
There's no part of this training
but
All the storage of the user home directory we get from the nfs server
And the client side where you have login to the users
And there's a workstation you can say I want if you want your home directory to be automatic mounted from the
NFS server either do it manually that is pretty simple to use but in the bigger world it is not useful
So you can use
Autoface program
Okay, so let's practice two or three times autoface. You would be very much linked it
I wonder this this video is recorded so you can again go through this class
And one more time you can properly link actual meaning of the autoface
But this is exactly how autoface works and why you have to stop the slnx. I'll take one small portion of slnx
That time I will again enable slnx and I'll show you some rule that you can use
to to
To set for the security and after you set the rule you don't have to disable slnx
Without sln disable it will work for you. Okay
So, uh, that's all guys for today tons of things we have discussed. So let me open a q and a
So any query if you have
Till here you can ask
But it's very important topic guys for the real world
plus this is a very important topic, uh for um
for
Uh for the examination also, so anybody who are going for rscs examination
That's good exam to go has a good demand in the market also
So this core topic is always asked
So I will take one exam boot camp. I will explain you this concept one more time
And the exam boot camp, but I I recommend practice this
go through video again
and
Then I think it will be very much linked properly
Okay
So any query if you have, uh, you guys can ask me
You
Can root user access other than other yes, I root can do anything other there. I think I told you initially also
uh
Root can
Do anything. Yes, obviously, uh pixel. Um, I don't know who's name you have
Uh for examination you have to pay directly to red hat
But as from the community we'll try
Ask ready to give some uh discount to the community guys
Uh, let's see how much they can give but this example is you have to pay to the red hat
I will prepare you for the exam. Don't worry
Uh for the security home factory at the trick multiple thing you can do
You can encrypt the hard disk we have a concept called looks or we can
Or we can
We can set some permissions so maybe next class will be about permissions
So I will show you more about permission so you can apply some permission there
So there's one security class next class will be on security only
Uh, we will discuss there
Okay, uh santosh there is no different between add user or the user add same command. They are the link
They are the link. There's no difference, right?
That's called uh, uh, that's called soft link. They have right
So guys just back to this uh important topic
Useful in the real world also, okay to make a storage centralized for the user
Okay
So that's all guys for today. Uh, and uh, see you guys in the uh in the next class. Bye. Good day. Take care. Good night
