So, all right, guys, welcome back to this initiative of RSC Rise.
We are into integration training of Red Hat version 8 and also doing the global training
of RSC SA 8 plus Python 3, right?
Tons of things we have done. We also initiated the projects, guys.
So, I think you guys are doing the project. So, when the project will complete, it will complete
when the content will complete, right? Because the idea sample and the project,
we actually integrating Python with all the concepts of Linux.
So, as soon we keep on adding new features of the Linux,
your feature of the projects will keep on increasing, right?
So, when they will soon, we will complete both of this training and at the end of the training,
all the features of this project will be completed.
So, three things we are doing in parallel.
One, learning Red Hat 8, second, Python 3 and third, creating the projects, right?
So, I think everybody is doing the same thing in parallel again.
So, today's topic, guys, is again pretty interesting.
It is only about the Python or whatever we are doing today, right?
But it is one of the topics that come in the advanced Python.
But for me, there is nothing in the advanced if you know the things
from the basics and the core level, right?
My topic is very, very interesting.
And in the real and today's world of programming or the next generation programming,
this concept we use a lot.
The concept name that we are going to learn in the Python is called lazy, right?
So, lazy is one great concept that we use a lot in today's world, right?
It is not only the concept of Python.
In all the newer languages, we use this concept a lot about the lazy execution, right?
If you go for, for example, Scala, if you go for any other languages, we use a lot, right?
But how we can use lazy concept or lazy evaluation concept
in the Python, we are going to do in a minute, right?
So, for this, what I'm doing, I'm directly jumping to my Jupiter,
where I will show you how to use this concept.
Believe me, guys, this concept makes programs so fast, so genius.
And that is one of the reasons why we use Python a lot in big data world.
And we use Python a lot in AI or deep learning world.
So, in this technology, we use Python a lot.
And one of the reason for using the Python because they have a support
and they have the understanding of doing something lazy, right?
So, what is lazy?
We'll directly jump to the Jupiter, right?
So, I'll go to some of the folder I have.
I'll go to some of the folder.
Guys, I'm holding for a second, please.
Just hold for a second.
Guys, I'm holding for a second.
This might be one small...
So, guys, guys, let's continue.
Let's continue with the next part.
So, if you ever work in big data or AI deep learning world,
or maybe if you work, right, lazy is a very common thing we used.
If you would like to improve the performance of your program,
of your operations, of your code, that's where we use lazy.
How it improves, right?
Let me explain this concept in a minute.
And this is very, very interesting concept.
You're going to love it, right?
If you ever work in any programming language,
this concept makes the program very interesting, right?
But before this, let me high level explain you
some basics of the Python that you already know
in a quick revision so you can link it to what I'm talking about, right?
So, technically, guys, for example,
for example, if you would like to create a list,
you guys know how to create the list.
This is the way we create a list, okay?
A is a list.
And if you would like to, you know,
go to the list and do some loop,
means pick first item, then print,
print second item, then print, it is called iteration.
And then for loop is the one who do the iteration for you.
So, I ask for go to A, inside A in,
pick one value, store in I, for example,
and start doing something, like print something.
Okay, for loop is the one who will help you to do a iteration.
Or you can say the loop, but here it is known as iteration, right?
But today in the today's class, guys, you will know,
you will come to know the exact meaning of,
exact meaning of the iteration
and how the for loop work behind the scene also you come to know.
I will explain you in a minute,
but this is the concept, guys, you know.
Okay, but if you have a requirement to create a list, right?
To create a list, either you can create manually,
or we have some functions available, right?
If we have, for example, one function available called range.
Okay, we can use a range function to create a list.
For example, I would like to create a list from 0 to 10.
So, I can write 10.
So, it will create a list from 0 to 10.
Okay, so let me, let me store this list in the B.
Okay, so one list, it come, it created from 0 to 10.
And how I know it create from 0 to 10?
So, I'll again ask to for loop and say for go inside B,
pick one item,
pick one item, store, for example, in J and print it.
So, rather than I create manually,
range function, it will create for you.
And you can say from 0 to 10, it will print.
And last number is exclude here.
So, 10 means the last number.
So, from 0 to 9, they will create for you.
So, this is a fast way to create the list.
But if you have a requirement to create a list,
and also store in some variable,
then you can do it like in B.
Okay, but if you have a requirement to create a list,
like from, we can use this function,
and then list whatever number you have,
you would like to square it.
Okay, so what can I do?
From 0 to 10, I store in B.
I use for loop, pick first item, store in J,
and I multiply J with J.
So, it is squared, the thing.
So, it will be a square.
But what I want, I would have to store this square
in some other array.
So, if you remember, guys, in the last class,
I have explained you one concept for list comprehension.
So, what can I do?
What can I do?
I create one list here.
I ask inside the list, ask for loop, for do one thing,
go in B, go in B, in B.
Pick first item of B, and store in J.
And whatever output of J, all right,
multiply this output here.
So, guys, if you write the for loop inside the list,
it is called list comprehension.
This topic, guys, we already discussed it.
So, in one single line,
your complete new list form I have with all the values.
Okay.
Or if you don't write to B here,
you can actually write the range function here.
So, there's no requirement to first assign it to B.
So, I can actually write a range here.
Range here, let's say 100.
So, one click, they create one list to square of the 100 numbers.
And now, if you have a requirement,
if you have a requirement to store this guy
in one other variable, let's say C, you can do it.
So, one click, it is stored directly into the C.
And if you want to print the C, you can do it.
Very straightforward.
So, these are the basics, guys,
I have explained to you already in the last class.
Okay.
So, in this particular example, guys, we have some issue.
Okay.
And biggest issue in this example is about the performance.
Okay.
So, what is the issue about the performance?
Right now, for example, if you have a requirement,
you have to create a value like 0, then 1, then 2, then 3, and 4, and 5.
How you can create, you can use range function.
You can give the range here.
And whatever value you are creating, you would like to do some operation,
maybe multiply the same number plus with 10,
maybe do some operation, maybe multiply 20, something like this.
Okay.
So, you are doing operation here.
And this, you are destroying the C.
So, it's not a big deal.
Okay.
You are doing this operation here.
The big deal is, guys, if you have a requirement,
right now, the data that you have is only 100.
Okay.
And data you have is only 100.
But you think, guys, you might have a data
where you have billions and billions of rows, number.
And what you want, you would like to ask range to generate this number,
means create this number.
And whatever number you're creating, ask for loop.
Just go to J.
Just go to J, means pick first item, multiply it,
and after multiply, store in one list.
Like, for example, let me again show you, let's say 10, store in C.
But right now, guys, you know what?
Whenever I use this function, okay, whenever I use this function,
I use this function over here, you know what?
When you use this syntax here, this is called list comprehension.
What we are doing, we are creating a list.
And this list is storing the C.
And what is C?
C is a variable.
And where the data is stored?
The data in the RAM.
So all those data store on the RAM and on the top of the RAM.
It means if you create a number, maybe some billion number,
so what they do, four will process all those billion number,
they multiply, they do some operations, right?
This is called operations here.
And all those numbers, they store in the RAM.
But, you know, guys, if you have a RAM, RAM is a memory, right?
And memory is always limited.
Maybe, for example, you have 4GB RAM, maybe 4GB RAM.
Or maybe you have some data, either you create from the range
or maybe you have some data is there in some file.
Maybe in some file, you have some records.
First one, second one, third one.
These are the records you have.
And this file where you have the record are known as data set.
So you have some data set.
Or this data set, maybe you have billions and billions record.
Because in today's world, whatever data we have right now,
our social media site is collecting, all the generating are huge.
They are normally known as big data.
Or in the big data world, right?
There's a very common thing to have billions of rows
or billions of records.
And if you would like to process all the billion records,
you know what I want?
I want to collect all the email IDs.
After collect all the email IDs in this list,
I'll ask for loop, right?
Just go and do the operation.
And you know, what is this operation? Mail it.
But for mailing all those guys, what we have to do,
we have to first retrieve the email ID,
store in some variable, load on the RAM.
But email ID will be billions.
And for storing billions of records,
maybe 4GB RAM would not be enough.
So for this particular operation may take lots of time, first of all.
Or maybe after some time, your memory full,
then you get an error of out of memory error.
And your program fail.
Okay.
So my point is, guys, this is a very common operation
in the big data world.
Or especially in maybe AI or DL data,
data deep learning world, right?
Where you have huge data.
And you have to operate in this huge data
using obviously like for loop or some loop or iterations.
So guys, now we can do two iterations here.
Two different iterations we can do.
So if you talk about the for loop,
if you talk about the for loop, right,
two different kind of iterations you can do.
Or two different approach you can use.
Okay.
So, sorry, if you have a for loop, either first approach would be,
you can give the term called, you know, complete execution
or maybe eager is one word you can use here.
What I mean by this, ask for loop.
Ask for loop.
Okay.
Just create, do operate in all those data.
Pick one by one, one by one and store in the complete RAM.
You do in this way.
Okay.
Means you're very eager.
You want to load complete first, then do the further things.
And load your data on the RAM and do the further things.
And a better approach that for loop you can use would be lazy.
Means, I'm telling my for loop, this is the program I want.
So I'm telling my for loop, for loop, that do one thing, just remember.
Okay.
I'm just giving you for loop, this list, this list I'm giving you.
Okay.
And what you have to do and what you have, you have supposed to do,
pick first item and multiply.
Pick second item and multiply.
But do one thing, don't do right now.
Because these operations, if you do right now,
and we have billions of numbers we have in the range.
So as soon as I run this command, you operate this,
you create one list, store in the C and load on everything in the RAM.
But don't do right now, because maybe I don't require this data right now.
Maybe I require this data in the future.
Or when I require in the future, also in that time,
I don't want to use complete data.
Maybe I'm looking for first data, I'm looking for second data.
So what I want, I want you just, you just remember this operation.
Right.
There's two thing guys, either you execute or either you remember.
So here I'm asking this guy to just don't execute this.
Otherwise, there will be memory or performance issue.
Only remember this instruction.
Okay.
And when we ask you, when you call you to run this,
this instruction or this statement, you run it.
And that time, don't run completely.
I know you have 10 days or maybe millions of lists you have.
Don't list completely.
Right.
Obviously, when you do, I ask, just only do first data, then do next,
then do next, then do next, it's called next.
So whenever I ask you to go next, then you run it.
So what happened finally?
I would like to do double of these number.
But when I asked to do it, then do it.
Means, you know what?
You would like to do a control on the for loop.
Guys, wherever you run the for loop, they will run a single go.
I don't want, I'm saying whenever I ask you to do it, then you do it.
Means remember this.
And this remember you had known is lazy.
So you know what?
I know for loop, we are very fast.
But what I want, I want you to be very lazy.
Okay.
And for this, for this, I'm showing that this demo in my Red Hat version 8,
you can use Windows, right?
Windows also.
But for some reason, I'm showing in the Red Hat.
The way I'm going to run one program.
This program might hang up my system.
And right now you're connected your YouTube stream to my Windows.
So I don't want you guys hang up.
But same demo you can do in your Windows also.
So, so what I'm saying, I'm saying to this guy, so perform for loop as a lazy.
Don't do thing.
This thing, remember right now.
Okay.
So this concept I'm explaining to you guys is known as lazy execution.
Or you can also use the term lazy evaluation.
You can use this term.
And if you would like to do a lazy thing, lazy thing in a Python.
In some programming language, they have a dedicated keyword like lazy.
By the Python, if you would like to do a lazy thing, right?
Then in the Python, we have very advanced or very interesting concept.
We use a lot.
This concept is called generator.
So technically, guys, today's topic is not at all about.
It is about lazy, obviously.
But the main name of today's topic that normally we learn in the Python advance.
It is known as generator.
So we will learn a generator, right?
So if you would like to use a generator, it's so simple, right?
If you would like to convert this statement, this list comprehension.
This is known as list comprehension that I explained in the last class.
Comprehension, right?
This list comprehension won't do eager.
They won't run it right now.
They work as a lazy.
Then you have to create a generator.
And if you want to create a generator, it's so simple to create a generator.
Whatever you do, exactly same statement.
Whatever you are learning or running right now.
Just replace this guy with parenthesis.
That's all, right?
That's all.
And understand this thing, guys.
In the Linux, we use parenthesis for list.
We use this guy for tuple.
But here, because inside this parenthesis, we are running some for loop something.
So this is not tuple, actually.
This is generator.
That's so simple.
You know what they've done, right?
As soon as I run this, okay, when I talk about this guy,
when I run this, they use complete RAM.
They stored everything on the RAM.
And they executed.
But if I run the same statement by this parenthesis, you know what, right?
They doesn't use any RAM.
None of the process yet done.
And if you ask, see, who are you?
See, say, I am a generator.
Means I know write this statement, but I haven't run it.
And I have a control on it.
And what control I have?
If you ask me to run it, so I have a control on the for loop.
I'll go to for loop, pick first item, and do the operation.
That's all.
And stop there, okay?
So for loop, we'll have all item from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, till 10, till 9 here in this case, okay?
So right now.
So I think that is my schema post for last some few seconds.
So what I'll do?
One more time.
So what I'll do, right?
If you talk about this, it create a generator.
Generator means C say, this variable say, we have these list come up from where?
From range.
And 4 is the one who will pick the range.
But I will say, I am a generator.
I will tell my for loop, right?
Pose here.
I pose the for loop.
And I'm saying, I'm see, I know this is the location I know.
So when I unpose you, when I resume you, you have to go pick the first item.
Do the operation.
Which operation you do?
What are you asked to do?
Multiply.
Give me the answer and then go to the next.
Go to the next.
And again, pose there yourself.
And when I again call you, run yourself and go to the next.
So technically, if you would ask your C or your generator, right?
That will tell you to your for loop that run the first thing.
Then we have function called next.
So I'm asking my C, right?
That tell to for loop, whatever you have first, run it and go to next.
So they pick first, that is 0.
Multiply 0 by 0 is what?
0.
But if I run next again one more time, see here?
What come up?
1.
Now one more time, what come up?
4.
When I run more time, what come up?
9.
So they pick here, this 3.
Okay.
They run it and they go to 4.
So we have a control, right?
We have a control to run one by one.
So if I keep on running, if I keep on running, this guy, you know what?
When the 10, when it reads to final, it reads to final, 81.
They reach to 9 because here we don't have a 10.
So the number of items is complete.
And you know what happen?
It give the error.
Okay.
It give the error.
And 4, so we don't have an next item 10.
So I have to stop myself.
I have to stop it because the item is being finished.
And guys, this is the way for loop 1 work behind the scene.
So how for loop come to know when you normally run for loop in this example, right?
How for loop come to know?
To pick first, then second, then third, because internally in the for loop,
they work with addresses.
Okay.
And how the for loop come to know this is the last item?
Because internally for loop, they try to pick the second item.
And my system will give some error.
That error is called exception.
There's one topic we'll discuss in the future.
And because internally for loop get the exception or the error,
they come to know, okay, this is the last item and the for loop stop.
Okay.
So technically, this is the error they got behind the scene.
Stop it, Jason.
There's nothing afterwards.
Okay.
So finally, you know what?
If you have a huge data, let me show you one more great demo in my Red Hat version 8.
One demo.
Let me log in first.
So technically, a generator is a concept actually in the Python
that makes Python lazy and lazy the concept that makes our program
completely lazy.
So, if I go to the Python, I'll see that it's lazy.
So when I go to Python, I'll see that it's lazy.
So, if I go to Python, I'll see that it's lazy.
So, if I go to Python, I'll see that it's lazy.
Program controllable or a performance,
performance or a high performance.
Right.
And we use this concept a lot when we have a huge data.
So we can ask for loop, go to my data set, pick first item, do with something.
Then stop.
I will tell you when to do next.
Okay.
So what I'm doing right now, I'm just calling Python 3 in my Red Hat.
And you know what I'm doing?
I'm going to create a one list right and where I'm multiplying something for loop
in I and range and here I'm your range of huge maybe how much it is is is
somewhere around 10 lakhs or 1 million okay if I do this operation in the same
time I'll open one more terminal and in the Linux we have come up a free half an
amp okay this is a command we have so this is a command we have it will tell
you the current RAM utilization right so in my system I have 52 MB RAM used or we
have a no command in the next we can use watch with half an and 0.1 second so
what it do it keep on running this command every point one guys I think my
screen is working right so I think my screen is working now I I don't think so
my skin was posed but yeah let me explain everything for my skin was
posed all right so this is a command in Linux this is a command in Linux what
this command do right free of an M is a command it will show you the current use
RAM and the free RAM is a Linux command and watch is a command in Linux to that
keep on running this command again and again and how fast every point one
millisecond let's say one second so how is the the watch is running my command
and they're showing me the live output of my RAM and right now 69 MB RAM is free
so you know what I'm my intention is when I run this code here when I run
this code here okay this is not lazy when the for loop run they pick all the
item multiply create a one huge big list and obviously where they store the list
on the RAM so what happened guys if you keep on watching here right now I have a
RAM 60 MB free and when I run it all right it become 59 something 6 MB RAM
consumed even though this is a not so much data all right but 6 MB RAM they
consumed right let me pick do some little bit more let's do this this
number and they're taking a lot of RAM a lot of RAM you can see the same RAM goes
down RAM goes on sometime my system also used some swap here and I don't know
anybody who knows swap swap also been used swap is also like a your RAM part
and it took a lot of time again if you see guys they keep on running this huge
operation I'm doing right now in my system and system go take the RAM as
much they they can use but because I already have very less RAM so they use
as much they can plus a lot of swap also swap you can also think is like a RAM
only okay they use and maybe say some also goes you know hang up okay this
piece always goes hang up okay and you know what happened finally if you see
here it's killed automatically you know internally there the system say this
program this is out of memory issue and when the out of memory issue come up
especially in the Linux the program kit and finally your coprogram field why
because you are doing eager operation and it's a very common operation that you
do you do in your big data world or deep learning world is a very common
mathematical operations you do in lots and lots of data okay but if you use the
same concept all right hello I think I might you my skin is visible right it's
kind of visible because I some students saying every life training some sense
I suppose I don't see here it is supposed it is working properly I don't
know so if we if you do the same operation over here over here without
this list comprehension and if you use a generator okay you know what I would
like to see you show you here is it is a live my RAM monitoring it is a 324 MB
RAM free right now in this particular scenario right in right now in my system
and as soon as I run this within a second without consuming single bit
memory they run it but technically you know why they run it because behind the
scene right behind the scene they are using lazy operation and they say I am
a I am a generator I am a lazy if you wherever you need this data this
operation I'll do for you and I will do for you only that part whatever you need
for example you just need only first one ask the next it will run the first one
again you ask next it will run second and guys you see the memory it not
consuming at any memory here if you ask the B for example it will next next one
next one next one they keep on keep on doing right it's not B is A next one
they are running okay and see all because they are picking one small part
they don't they're not consuming any RAM yeah but if you're looking for the
complete data to run all right so you can use for loop here and how do you use
for loop here A is my generator I'll ask my for loop A for loop do one thing go
to A go to A pick first item pick first item and do the operation okay so what
4 will do 4 go to A and ask who are you A say I'm a generator okay okay you know
what if anything that is generator let me write here if any variable that is
generator is also a iterator what I mean by this okay let me explain this way
so you let me cancel this if you ask for loop for loop do one thing go to 5 5 is
single value take this one it's true in the X and print X so you know what that
is 5 is single value right single value and if you run for loop in the single
field and what they say 5 is integer and is not iterable so for loop is a
keyword it only work if you provide a list or if you provide a multiple values
and if you don't have a multiple values if you don't provide the multiple values
obviously it would be okay one minute let me create a notes for you also so
you won't lose anything
vomit okay I'll show you guys this note to for you with you guys so so for loop
say I only work if you have a if you have a values that have multiple values
like list like tuple something like this okay those are the things that I can
iterate one by one by one by one by one right so it means it means a for loop
can work can work only on those things where for loop can go and iterate the
things means for only work on iterators and generator is one of the example of
it it means if you would like to use the for loop in this a so I can as for loop
just go to a pick first item and do it and you know I don't know I don't know
have you understood the power of this example or not right it's so powerful
you know what I'm doing right let me explain in this way again let me first
create a again this a and I am creating a for loop again here you know what this
guy is doing right this guy's is creating a multiplication or the square
of these numbers one to be some billions number okay billions number and guys
whenever you do any multiplication you do multiple first then second and third
and then fourth this is the way you do right but because this is generator so
what they do what they do because this is generator right so internally a only
create one number only behind the same then the first number there is two on
the RAM first number they multiply first number go to a for loop pick first
number and print it then it generate next next number there's a reason to
they generate next number okay then go to I we multiply and print it okay even
this means your even though you're doing is such a big operation over here okay
but it won't consume lots of RAM data keep on coming and keep on printing and
keep on you know storing the RAM and they keep on remove after some time it
means if I run this operation I see huge operation is is generated and see the RAM
guys not enough RAM very small RAM consuming they are doing and they're
doing is such a big operation over it but let me control C is a big number let
me do control C but if you talk about without the generator if initially guys
without the generator if you try to store this number without generator here
let me write here without generator it failed to generate even right it failed
to create an array right this generator failed you know what it says it says
right I don't have enough memory to create and if even though I have to guys
surely your RAM goes down its swap is started using and maybe if you run an
error like this it failed again program will terminate okay so my point is guys if you have a
huge operation your system if you guys have my system also guys go ahead goes
hang up here is this very slow this particular OS so a point is guys over
here is you know what they're doing here first they creating all the list and
dumping on the RAM I don't need this I just want to do operation one by one so
why are they creating complete data on the RAM store on the RAM and then we go
for for loop and for loop again multiply and the put down the RAM so it will be a
huge operation unwanted memory come on even though I just feel right feel
program failed completely but if you go to list comprehension working fine the
generating also the data plus they also doing calculus also very smoothly no of
my system hang up or other things right so I don't know you have you link this
part or not but so much powerful thing it's very powerful operation we have
done so this is the guys one of the great example of of list list
comprehension okay let me tell you one more very interesting example of a list
comprehension right what very very interesting example right and here guys
you were you gonna learn some more concept about about the list
comprehension for example let me take one example you guys know how to create
how to create a function for example I have one function here let's say LW
okay and inside the LW function I just creating a for loop if I have a list
like one two three four five okay inside this what I'm doing I'm returning I
this is a function I have created right and now whenever I call LW when I call
LW okay what happened what happened guys can you guess what happened what
would be the output when I call LW it run for loop first go to this first one
put an I and the return then what about this for loop keep keep on running let's
see no even though you are multiple time you always get the one because you guys
know the meaning of the ridden whenever in the function you run the ridden
right this particular function stops there it stops there and whatever the
value of I dead time it will it will reach there okay this is a typical way
typical way we we work okay but there's one more concept over here over here is
let me take one more example here let me pick this example in different way
instead we write this one we let me write the range let's say till 5 till 10
let me run the function again what happened guys you know what what range
will give you from 0 to 9 what for loop will do for loop pick the first item
let 0 and the return and when the return come up okay this this this function
stops and what a last value they show you the last value I 0 this way in the
whenever you run this function they always always give 0 okay so this is but
what is a great thing I'm just going to explain you right the great thing guys
that I'm going to explain you here is the function that I am using here okay
again very very much interesting concern I'm going to explain you right so just
try to concentrate it's a very powerful power concept of Python actually okay in
in this concept guys in this concept all right the function that you use right is
a function you can use a word called it is a function that forget the thing it
don't remember the thing or you can use a function the word called this is a
state less function means it means when you call this function when you call
this function they go inside then for loop run and here guys we have a huge
value from 0 to 1 to till 9 what for you do they first pick first item okay
there's two in the eye and retail will reply that first value is 0 because we
already use the first value so what I want I want my function don't forget
this the first value is already been used they remember this part and when I
call the function next time one more time okay then this time this function
tell to the eye or the for loop that this part is already been been used
already been used now this time pick the next one pick the next one okay and then
ask I to reply the next one okay and keep on doing it means right now this
function or doing this way because for function forget what the last value I
we used and further forget where is my last value where is my last state so
they don't remember the state of the eye right they forget okay and because they
forget because they forget right so I can tell I can even though I can say for
example let if I let me store this value into a and if I ask the type of a it is
a normal integer come up because I value 0 is normal integer but if you
want this function don't work like it forget the thing I want the function
remember what the last value we used that's what I want I want they remember
those things okay so for this you have to make the function stateful and if you
would like to make the function stateful then you have to clear this function
again our generator because generator is the one who remember the last value they
use and that is a reason guys when I create this example when I create this
example this one so when I again let me run this because this is generator so
they know we haven't used first one now they know in the C first one is already
used is already used so what we have to do we have to use second one and they
know second one only use what they do they remember they will go for fourth
one okay it means generator is a one who who remember the last value they use
same thing we have to do here what we have to do we have to make our function
generator and how to create a function generator let me write the same function
again and whenever you want your function to be generator work like a
generator that instead of written we have very interesting keyword here
instead of written we have to use a keyword called yield why I E L D yield
okay it is exactly like a return but only thing is right whenever I value you
want to give back to this function okay this time yield will return the value
this function exactly the way written work but also they they remember that
last value I pass was or written was one or two and three so they remember they
remember this or because they remember the value in this case I can say my LW
function is is generator how can I say so if you store this variable in B and
fast B who are we BC is not a normal variable it is a generator or because it
is a generator right I can tell my B if I run the B you say I'm a generator
because it is a generator it know LW is a function and I know in LW right the
first value is whatever the first value I know so what I'll do I'll tell my
generator ask I use the next function and whatever I first value you want to return
it then again I'm running second value then I think it's so interesting you
can't do this thing with return right it's very interesting you can do and
they keep on doing till the end till then and you guys know in the end the
last number was is actually 10 sorry 9 so after 9 they say I don't have a more
values I remember till 8 I remember till 9 I don't have anything after 9 because it's
10 till till 10 so it failed with stop it doesn't don't iterate more okay so it
is a it is a great example so right some function is already there in your
system they already pre pre generators available but some function is not a
generator you have if you want you can create a generator with use of it but
finally guys finally if you talk about generator what it will provide you it
probably lazy whenever you call them you can whatever last value they know
wherever the last state they have right they will send that guy and they will do
the operation on it plus minus multiple or whatever you would like to do okay
that would that part they they do for you right and you keep on asking they
keep on doing for you okay for example right now maybe you might think it means
in this in this example right B is generator is generator here it's okay I
can have to do next again and again if you want otherwise because B generator
and in the generator you can use for loop ask for loop for go to B pick first
value let's say J and print it because for loop is always work in iterator or
it is actually is one example one of the example iterator generator so it will
print everything for you and for loop when know when to stop so they stop it
okay so this is a one of the great example one more small thing I would like
to tell you here is and tell you here is that is what is it is for example this
is a list 1 comma 2 comma 3 is a list okay if you would like to convert your
list into a generator directly if you have a required if you want right for
example I just like to store in M okay for this it is not a generator for this
we have function called iter so it is a function you can use okay it convert
your list into generator not actually generator generator is a little different
is it a converter to a generator you can use any of the example example I can
directly use for loop or because this is iterator I think next I might I think
also it to work yeah it to work so it is say I I know your first value one then go
to next is 2 I go to next is 3 there's nothing next you can stop it okay but if
you do the normal next with normal list it won't work so you want if you want to
iterate something okay you have to create a iterator and and that iterator
if you get a trader you can use the next to do operation one by one if you want
but but really in the real history world we use this example a lot this one the
yield because normally whatever you view we do we do we always use create a
function and in the function maybe we keep on generating the data okay maybe
you know what example would be I asked before loop but this was a one great
example I asked my for loop okay for loop do one thing let's just try to
create one great example right maybe some more logics clear right for example
let's say I have I have email address okay I have a list of email address
h at the rate gmail.com second p at the rate gmail.com okay let's say two more
l at the rate something.com and one more k at the rate k.com so this list I have
and I think it is not a normal list you have billions and billions of of
records you have is a big data okay it's stored there in your hard disk
somewhere right now I'm just putting in my RAM but you can think is showing
somewhere in your file you know hard disk and somebody asked go to the hard
disk because guys normally we have a in hard disk we have a lot of space but in
the RAM we always has very limited space because one of the reason would be very
very is very expensive RAM is always expensive hard disk is very very cheap
okay so now your duty is to pay start picking one by one right and mail them
so there two choice either go to the hard disk store all this guy on the RAM
first and then start mailing one by one right then you can do very easily very
easily but again this is huge email address maybe some GB's or GB's RAM they
require so what can I do I can use here I can create one function here let's say
LW email okay here in the function I use for loop and say for loop go to this
this particular variable this one pick first item put in the eye pick first
item put in the eye okay and right now I'm just printing it or either the
print I just returning it okay and instead of return actually we we okay
let's return it okay now whatever whenever I use LWE what I'm expecting
I'm expecting first email address I got it but when I run second time why I want
I want a second email address but it's not getting the first second one one
reason is because this is a straight less they don't remember the last one so
they keep on always picking the first one okay so this is a problem we get here
and for solving this issue what can I do I can use ILD where I use ILD they
remember the other one right so let me let me run this and let me store this
guy in one variable EM for example email now EM is a generator because
generates two benefit you get in one single go the first benefit is okay now
whenever I call EM I call EM with the next EM okay when I call my first email
address so they give me first and they remember first only given next time I'll
call they give me next so I keep on getting the email and they keep on
emailing them or whatever I would like to do in this part this is the first
benefit I get because they I'm using yield and because I'm using yield so they
remember things second benefit I'm getting is right they're doing lazy
internally internally right let's see guys this is the email I write directly
here but until maybe I write one function here that that goes in your
hard disk and every time when I run this whenever I run this function again and
again who will run next will run every other hard disk and they first pick
first record then they pick second record then they pick third record they
keep on running it so here I can use one function here and if you want to use any
function in this in this area there's the use of lambda so when the next class
will discuss you about the lambda you can use but to make it simple I have
done this so you know what I'll do next year it pick the first one now they
remember first one is pick now if I do next again they pick second one it's p8gmail.
let's see the second one right then third one and the fourth one and finally
they say now stop iteration means my my my email complete your job done so lots
and lots of guys examples and applications you can do right with the
generator so final summary guys if you would like to create a generator three
way either you can create a generator by this way the it's called this is called
list comprehension is called list generator all right it's called list
generator this way you can use second way to create a generator in a
function whenever you use a written you can use yield the second way to create a
generator and third way to not actually exactly to create a generator but if you
would like to create a iterator you can use iterator function okay the only
difference in generator and iterator both are same they know next next next
next the only difference is in the generator or in the iterator is not two
same thing right if any variable let's say a is a iterator let's say B is a
generator okay so difference is for example A we have one two and three and B
again we have four five and six so difference between iterator and generator is
if you this iterator so the A know the location first guy and whenever you do
next A they pick first one they the position change again the next A they
print this one then go to next one this is called iterator okay but if it's a
generator exactly same thing you can do but only thing guys in the iterator you
have to load all the data on the RAM then it will work but in the generator
this data you don't have to load in the RAM either they there in the hard disk
hard disk or maybe there is not yet been calculated you know like the range
function we use so we keep on asking one by one and we keep on multiplying
keep on getting so this data you don't require initially on the RAM okay
whenever required we get from somewhere or we keep on generating okay and
because we keep on generating it is the reason this is known as generator or
because whenever we require it will generate it will consume it won't
consume a RAM and CPU so program will be super fast and it is a good example for
the big data and the huge data okay and because whenever we want they will
generate and there is a reason this is a part of lazy so lazy execution or lazy
evaluation is a concept name actually and the Python if you would like to go
for lazy this very very powerful topic actually you have to go for generator
okay but generator also do work like iterator so we can say generate is a one
of the subtopic of iterator you can say in this way also okay so guys this is
the topic for today I highly recommend this topic it is a one advanced topic of
Python but those guys who ever were plan to work in spark or big data or Hadoop or
maybe some advanced AI deep learning processing or maybe any data world
actually or big data world lazy is very powerful thing we we always want to use
it right so that's all guys for today I'm just starting my Q&A and this
what's up not in what's up it what is this this is YouTube so if any Q&A you
can ask me
so I just started my chat box any query if you have you can ask me guys
but logical wise the base core concept and very main part we have done okay so
so that's the one generator is not as such the core routine of the Python but
yeah whatever the time limit we have in MLOps we will complete on time maybe
some more day extra we if we need we will definitely give us right it's not
like this we will we will do hurry to complete the MLOps my my maintenance was
to complete come properly right
can increase the class and pankaj which class time you're talking about this
this rise classes you're talking about or the MLOps
what the memory consumption by tensorflow lazy deep right it won't take a lot of
memory right if in the tensorflow if you go for lazy execution right but it
all depend upon your data also right there a lot of thing is there but
comparatively eager it can do very less but then always a fixed number like 5%
10% or 90% also very firm calculation to calculation and data to data so I
highly recommend when you write multiple different programs open your free
command or your task manager and keep on monitoring so slowly slowly we will be
very much comfortable that where how much they're consuming but it's not
always a fix it's all depend upon data
can we use generator for your table data yes you can use yes one you can use for
tuple also for for general even the range function that we use I think they
generate tuple only but yeah but technically you can use for tuple also
the generator yes generator is one of the example iterator but they do a
something extra also like lazy thing
for small lesser version one before iterator generator for a small small
data set is also depend upon multiple requirements agar for example if you
have a small data set and you want to do operation on the data set multiple
times so don't go for generator because every time they calculate they load so
put complete data on the RAM then process it okay but if you have a huge
data set you don't have any other any chances because you don't have a RAM so
then ask generator they will keep on generating or getting the data and do it
okay so but you will understand that you what I'm talking about Sagar but I'll
try to give you some difference here so it is not like this generator is good or
iterator good both have a different use cases but dependable scenario but in the
big data set you have generator is the very common use case we use
if it is great thing Neha you asked me if it is so fast so why it is not a lazy
because actually I I don't say it is fast according to me according to me it
is not fast but it improved the performance they two different thing
right I had a simple if you have a huge data okay and you first you load on the
RAM and then process but you don't have so much RAM so my system is keep on
fighting keep on fighting you know to get the RAM first so the overall
performance will be will be slower okay but in the generator they keep on
generating run on run on the RAM and then they process then they remove from
the RAM then new data come on the RAM they they process and then run it so
finally it improved the performance of the program but it it it became a little
slower for example for example you have one MB data and you want to do some
calculation right the faster program you know what would be come load of one MB
data completely on the RAM then do the operations okay it will be faster but if
you would use the generator okay they won't load the complete data on the RAM
the every time they go to hard disk load one part then do that again go hard disk
then load on the RAM then do this so generator is a is a very slow compared
to the normal other eager or other other process so I'm not saying this fast
because they are lazy means whenever you ask they will do the things so they have
to take extra time but in the big data world data is so big we don't have any
other solution so we have to go for lazy operation so just I'm trying to
explain you you know so for me generator is not fast but I say yeah it is good
for performance especially the big data world
okay we use in daily no Akash you can't use generator and Linux operations I say
it is a concept of a programming world but if you have any command or program in
the Linux maybe they might be using lazy this is depend upon the developer of the
programs so it is not a concept that you can use in your Linux operation world
but yeah if you have any operations for data respective right there you can use
it but there is no SS command in the Linux operation so it depends upon the
job role so if you have any data related job role where you can use generator or
the lazy and we use a lot actually right for example in the spark if you heard
about we tool I'll use a lot in Linux some data cluster there we use lazy a
lot what is masquerading Niles masquerading has lots of different
meaning what context you're talking about normally we use masquerading a lot
in the networking concept so if you want to hide your IP and you want to give the
other IP this is one of the concept of masquerading we can use DNS also so
which context you're talking about if you can ask me so when we will next
docker class I just want we have done the docker class already so I don't know
which class you're talking about and the last class we have done and we we have
explored we have given you a projects right and I think this is the last week
to complete your project and after completing the project you will get a
project certificate definitely right so go through my last video of the docker I
explained everything which kind of project you have to do mlf project guys
we will discuss the mrops class it is not right time to discuss yet because
after DevOps will start I will discuss about the project we'll discuss what we
you're gonna do guys this the this part the the so what I say at this class
notes I will share in your drive Google Drive after the class what eager
approach if Neha if you are the part of machine learning MLOPS training they are
explained you already explained what is eager approach but eager approach is as
soon as the code run all right it run the code right you know first example I
show you today list comprehension so as soon I run my for loop run the code they
do the operation like multiply so they don't wait so I think that is not lazy
is eager and normally by default we always work in eager
but we were talking about recorded class order yes yeah so I think yes when
you're talking about the MLOPS class respect to two classes we have given
maybe next class we will go tomorrow because the classes were longer for us
so we normally try to give two days for one class so next class we will provide
tomorrow right in MLOPS MLOPS class so so that's all guys I'll try to touch as
much as I can so that's all see you guys tomorrow and we will learn some more new
advanced thing in the Python so my plan guys to be this week to cover as much as
in the Python world and then whatever remaining topic we have left in the
Linux we will pick those topics okay so soon guys will complete this complete
journey of RSS and Python soon right so that's all guys great and see you
tomorrow bye see you
