So, all right guys, again, welcome back.
So I highly believe that you guys have started with the project and the idea development
part, right?
So technically, if you go through my last three days of the sessions of this particular
training, right?
So we are doing three things in parallel.
One, we are learning Linux, Red Hat Linux 8 version, that's the latest one.
And we are learning Python latest version three, plus we also start integrating these
two things and come up with a new idea and come up with something, some kind of project
that would be useful or helpful for the real industry, right?
So those things we have done.
So again, lots of things to be discussed today.
So what I'm doing right now, again, launching my operating system, same one, right?
And yesterday, or in the last class even, I have explained you how to integrate some
networking thing in your Python code, right?
And that is very important because the idea on which we are working on our project, right?
So I think you guys have gone through my last lecture, but idea was is very, very sophisticated,
very straightforward.
So what we want, we would like to create a project for the guy who is sitting in this
laptop, right?
And the goal is and the challenge is from one single laptop, this particular guy, let
me take the name here, for example, somebody sitting in this particular laptop, or in this
particular operating system or the VM, right?
So from this system, I would like to provide a very simple, very sophisticated, very straightforward
program or a tool or a software to this guy, right?
Through this software or program, these guys can manage any number of system devices and
the operating system, wherever they are located, they are located in their own lab, they are
located in the cloud, they are located in their data center, that would be, so it would
be anywhere, but by this program, we would like to manage those things, right?
So we are creating our own project for simplifying these things, and this is a very common thing
and normally almost all the technical IT or any of the technical industry, we require
these kind of use cases, right?
So and the good thing is we are building everything from the scratch without having any zero knowledge,
right?
And one more small thing, just by learning Python or just by learning Java or any other
language or just by learning Linux operating system doesn't make any sense, right?
Because this is a very bad practice in the market, in the institute, in the training
organizations, normally they do, because maybe in some time in colleges also, they
keep on trained, giving us a training in multiple things, but without integrating the things
or without connecting to the real industry use case, those knowledge won't be helpful
and even though, you know, we feel very much some kind of burden because they are unwanted
they are throwing an hour on particular head, but if you connect whatever you are learning
with the real use case, what industry require learning would be very interesting and you
know, you will, you also know why we are learning this, why you are investing your time or money
on those aspects, right?
That is again, very much interesting.
So having the industry use cases and then learn or first understand the challenges,
what industry and you guys are facing and then learn those things and implement, right?
It will be always wow.
And that would be again, one of the great subject of my upcoming workshop of AI artificial
intelligence.
So all the disaster, whatever we have or pandemics, whatever we have right now, if you talk about
Corona virus, right?
So at the time of learning those artificial intelligence on our workshop, right, I'll
just try to relate those things and all the challenges we are facing, try to solve with
whatever we learn in upcoming two days of my workshop, right?
So technically, whatever you learn, this will be a great thing, right?
This might be the right way to learn, right?
So these two system we have started the first one, right?
I use this system, right?
This one, right, where I will run my program, I run my program and program that we created
is a menu kind of program, right?
And when I run it, it asks me if you want to manage your own local system or you want
to manage a remote system.
If I say the remote, it will ask me the IP address and it go to the IP and, you know,
do whatever we asked to do, right?
So this is one small thing we already did, right?
So what I'm doing again, let me show you my menu very quickly.
And the code I already shared with you, not the actual code, but the screenshot of the
code I shared with you in my Google Drive, right?
So if you go to the Google Drive, right, the same drive that I shared with you, I created
extra doc where you can get my code, right?
So just I'm saying that I'm guys, because by the meantime, my operating system start,
I just want to just trying to revise the thing, whatever we have learned, right?
So this is the one Google Drive I already shared with you in our IIC Telegram Rice channel.
So this particular document is the one where I shared my code or my screenshot of my code
to you, okay?
So let's start with the next thing.
So right now, the menu that I have, I keep in this, I've kept in this particular folder,
right?
And when I run this code, Python 3, menu.py, I run this code, they ask me where you would
like to run.
And if I say local, right, they ask me, do you want to run calendar?
I say yes to it, pin the calendar for me.
But in the last class, I told you multiple challenges we are, we are having, right?
The first challenge we are having in this particular menu, right?
The menu is not properly working, right?
Because the first challenge is in this particular menu is, right, is when you run, when you
ask for a choice, right, they do whatever you ask, right?
But after you've done your choice, right, the program exit.
It means if you want to run the date again, if you want to run the calendar again, you
have to again run the program, again you have to say local login, then again you have to
run the one, the program again exit, right?
But what I want, I want my menus keep on asking, okay, till the time I ask them to exit, okay?
I want my menus to keep on asking.
And guys, whenever you have this kind of requirement in any world or maybe in the programming world,
where you want your menu, your thing is keep on doing and keep on asking, there the use
of loop come in play.
And guys, today is the topic of loop, right?
So for the challenge, whatever I am facing right now, if you want to solve those challenge,
if you want to do this particular challenge, right, through the things through which we
can solve this particular part, right, we have to use a loop, okay?
Again, if you understand, right, you know what, I haven't started loop directly.
Maybe if you guys ever learn any programming language like C or Java, normally we start
for the wide loop, you know, directly, right?
But you know how I started, I first explain you the challenge, what I am facing here.
And for solving this challenge, I am picking one new topic.
So the same way, I'll first take this topic, especially for those guys who are new in programming,
and I will go a little bit advance and explain you the syntax of loop in the Python for those
guys who are new in Python.
And then we use loop here to solve this challenge.
So challenges, I would like my menus keep on asking rather than exit after they run
whatever I asked to run, right?
So that is the requirement for solving those things, we have to use a loop, right?
And normally in the programming language, we have normally two different kind of loop,
we have while loop and the for loop.
So for loop is very interesting, it's all very different use cases.
So I will take this topic afterwards in the upcoming class.
Right now, I'm using while loop for solving this part, right?
So you can think in this way, right, let's take one more basic example of the loop.
For example, this is your Python language, and if I ask you to print high, you can run
high and you know, print high, you can run it right, it will set forward.
But if somebody asks you to print high 10 times, you can you can run 10 times here is
not big deal.
But if somebody asks you to do this things, millions of time, right, again, you can do
it.
But it takes against maybe hours or days to run millions of time, right, it is also best
your time also.
So what we want, I and that is the reason why we as human being has created a computer,
right?
Because whatever we have to do, we'll allocate this task to the computers and computers will
do those things for us.
So what I would I'm trying to tell you here, rather than iron and print high, millions
of time, hundreds of time, I ask my computer that this is the thing I want you from you.
Just go and keep on running till millions and times or maybe thousands of time, right?
And for this, if you want to do this thing, same thing again and again, again and again,
they're the use of loop come in play, okay, loop come in play.
Okay, and there's two different mainly loop, right, but right now we are using the while
loop.
Okay, so how how it works.
So let me give you the basic syntax of the while loop.
So I ask my while loop and say while keep on running this loop for 100 times.
Okay, and what I want in this loop, I want in this loop to print high, whatever you want
to do, you do it and then close.
Okay, so what while loop will do while loop will keep on running whatever they have in
their block of code, right?
How much time hundreds of times.
You can write maybe millions of time or whatever the time how much time you would like to run
this.
Okay, this is one thing, but this is a typical syntax of any other programming language.
But in the Python, I already explained you the syntax of any, any keyword that has a
block of code, you know, so in the if I explain you already.
So in the Python, you don't have to use, you don't have to use here, parentheses, you don't
have to use callibrates.
So directly you can write while 1000 times, millions of times and you can write your lines
of code, but it should be indent, right?
So whatever the blocks of code you use an if or else or else if a while or for loop,
it should be indent with respect to while loop.
Okay, so while loop is here, so you have to give some spaces here.
In my case, I'm just giving tab, tab as a tab space of eight character normally, right?
So this is the thing I use.
So this is the syntax of the while loop, exactly like we have if or else in the Python.
Okay, but one more small thing in the while loop, right?
Whatever you pass here, it is exactly like if like in if right if you can think if is
a one kind of function and the function you have to provide some arguments or the parameter
and function this if function support only two arguments, right?
One is true and one is false, like Boolean similarly, similarly in the while also, they
only support two inputs or two parameters or the argument right, true or the false.
Those guys who are new in the programming world, what is the argument?
What is parameter?
What a function we will discuss soon in the upcoming class when we start the functions,
right?
Right now, you can think, okay, that in the while loop, whatever you give in the front
of the while loop, it would be either true or false.
Now it is your choice.
It is your choice to give the true or false directly here or you can use some kind of
conditions operators, right?
Maybe greater than less than for example, right?
If you want while loop will run this loop for example, 100 times if you want.
So instead we would write 100 because 100 is a number or number doesn't support in
the while loop here.
Either you have to pass true or you have to pass false.
And how we can pass true or false is very simple way, right?
What can I do?
I can write here for example, here I can give one variable called i equals to 1 and here
I write i less than equals to 100.
It means, right?
What happened guys?
When a program run, initial value of the i would be 1 and then it go to while loop and
while loop, they run this particular, this called condition.
They check this condition, does one is less than 100 and say yes, one is less than 100
and because the condition always give you answer true or false, they give the true.
And guys while is exactly like if in some form, right?
If you give the true to the if, they run their block of code.
Similarly, if while find true, it run their block of code.
So it is simple, right?
I ask while, while till the time you get the true, keep on running a code.
Okay, so technically the final syntax and final program would be something like this,
right?
I start with i 1, I ask, then I ask while, while do one thing, right?
Just check does i value is less than equals to 10 for example.
If yes, run this code, means print high.
But the difference, you know, if you talk about if also, if also has the same look and
feel.
If i is less than equals to 1, if i is less than equals to 10, if yes, run this code.
So technically, technically, if you think if is exactly look like while, right?
So again, if also need true or false, while also need true or false, if say if this value
is true, I'll run this block of code, while also say if this value is true, I'll run this
block of code.
The only difference in the while and the if is, right, if this is true, if run this block
of code only once and then they go ahead, they again, they never come back.
But in the while, if this is true, while run the block of code and after in the block of
code, they again come back and again check the syntax, again check this condition.
If this condition is again true, they again run it, again come back, again check the condition,
if condition is again true, they run it till the time the condition is false.
And that is a reason, while in the while we use for the loop, because just keep on looping
the thing.
Okay, but so my point is guys, if I code this here, right, if I write a code here and if
I ask everybody this particular answer, for example, if i equals to 1, if I ask while,
just check i is less than equals to 10 and say yes, i less than equal to 10 and then
print higher for example.
So my question for everybody, oh sorry, I have write wrong is greater than, right, but yeah,
my question for everybody, what would be the answer?
So let's check from here, what's the value of i is 1, okay, does 1 is greater than 10
equal to 10, no, so it give false and because give false, right, while doesn't like false,
so it doesn't run their block of code and if it doesn't run the block of code, nothing
will come up, right, this means while only love, love or like true only, let me again
run i one more time, again in the same code, but now this time I'm giving less than equals
to 10 and now I'm printing again, so my question for everybody, what do you think, what would
be the output of this code, just think what would be the output of this code, okay, let
me play in this way, right, for example, i equals to 1, does this value is true, yes
and because this value is true, while again work like if because there are two, they run
the block of code, they run high, but while again come back, they again loop, again they
block check the condition again, but right now guys, because I set my value of i one
forever because I said one forever, right, so i one is always less than 10, so while
always get through because they always get through, they keep on printing high, high
again and again, so guys technically, you know what is keep on printing, it is like
a infinite loop, it find a loop, right, so technically, so if you want to close this,
you have to press control C to terminate, there's a different point, but you can, so
technically, what I'm saying, right, whatever condition you have to give here, okay, if
it is true forever, the while is keep on running forever, it is called your infinite loop and
if you want to close the infinite loop, if you are in a command line, you can use control
C or left control C to terminate, but if you want it loop only 10 times, so what can you
do, you can change the value of i, so what can you do, you can increase the value of
i plus 1, so initial i value is 1, then 1 plus 1 is 2, now new value is 2, again check
the condition, is again 2 is less than 10, yes, so after 10 loop, i become 11 and 11
is less than 10, so your while loop closed, so guys again, so this particular small lecture,
it is for those guys who are new in programming world plus those guys who are new in the Python
also, right, so what you have to do, you have to increase the value of i equals to i plus
1, now this time, it print high only for, if you see here, 10 times, because every loop
i keep on increasing the value of i with 1, okay, so technically, this is the logic of
while loop is used for the loop plus this index of the Python, one more small thing,
in maximum programming language, if you want to increase some variable value with 1, so
normally, we use i plus plus or i minus, if you want to decrease also, but in Python,
i plus plus or i minus plus doesn't support, okay, so if you want to increase the value
of plus 1 or minus 1, you have to use either this index or right now, for example, my x
value is 1 and if you want to increase the value of x, right, you can use plus equals
to 1, this thing also you can use, okay, this is called unary operator, unary operator you
can use to do the same thing, so your choice, either you can use x equals to x plus 1, right,
or you can use that 1 as your choice, this operator you can also use, okay, one more
small thing for about this operator, for example, x equals to 1, y equals to 2 and you want
to add these two values and store in z, how you can do x plus y, it becomes z, but what
do you want if you have a requirement to add both the values and store in y, so there's
two way, either you can use this way, so both the values will add and go to y or if you
have this kind of requirement because this y value add with something then again assigned
to same y, either you use in this way or you can use this operator also, so in this kind
of example we normally use the unary operator, okay, so what I'm doing, what a value of x
currently I add into 1 then again assigned to x, so in this kind of scenario you can
use unary operator, now it is your choice, you want to do plus, you want to do minus,
okay, you want to multiply the thing, right, for example, maybe my x value is 9, you want
to multiply, you want to divide, all those thing you can do by this kind of operator,
right, so, but yeah, plus plus, minus minus is a typical increment or the decrement keyword
we have in other programming language like in Java C, it doesn't support in the Python,
okay, so I believe you guys got the idea about the while loop, one more small thing, I again
am trying to emphasize while it like a if and if you give true to the while directly
also they will happy forever and they will run this print whatever the code or the block
of code they have forever, it like infinite loop, okay, so technically, technically in
the while, okay, in the while whatever condition you write here, the output would be either
true or false and until the time it become true, they give you, they run in the block
of code and you know what, again maximum time while is normally compare with the for loop
in maximum programming world, but normally, I normally compare while with the for loop
because for me, while is look like, sorry, in my case, I normally compare while with
the if loop, sorry, with the if keyword, okay, because for me, for is very different, it
is solve very different use cases, I will come in future with this class for loop, right,
but according to my logic, I normally compare while with the if, right, for example, in
the if, you write the condition here, then colon, then the block of code, then you write
else colon their block of code and here if the condition is true, they run their block
of code, but if the condition is false, it goes to else and they run their block of code,
but it never come back again, okay, but fit of while, it is exactly the same, right, in
the while, again, they write the condition, they give you output true or false, right,
and what output they have, they run the code, but because I, because if is again look like
while, right, and so exactly same thing, what if solve, so most of the Python version support
else also, so in the while also we can put else, so it is pretty straightforward, if
this condition is true, while run this code, but if this condition is false, while send
to the else and they run their code, okay, but only difference, if you see here is exactly
same like if, the only difference is if while get true here, right, they again come back
and check the condition, again the condition true, again come with their under code and
check the condition, so that is the reason they use the term loop, that is the reason
while also used for the loop, okay, but otherwise what if you see here, while as a keyword or
if as a keyword both only take true or false to get the things, for is little bit different,
right, look like same while, so when I go for for I will explain you why I am saying
it is little bit different, okay, so let me show you this particular demo, okay, so what
I am doing right now, again I am putting i equals to 1, I will say while does i is less
than equals to 5, for example, if yes, in my case it will yes, so just print high, else
I am writing the code exactly like, exactly like, you know, if right, so in this case
guys, what with the output, oh my god, I forget to you know write plus plus, so let me write
here, so while I write high and you have to increase the value of i, you have to increase
so that your, after 5 condition, after 5 loop, this will false and it go to else and print
while, so what you will see, they run high 5 times till this condition false and when
I become 6, this condition false and whenever, if this condition is false, this condition
or the while get the false, they send to the else if they have and they run this, right,
the CL guys, they run this particular while, so this is one of the reason, I normally compare
while with the if, but normally both the guys have different use case, if you have only
condition check that we use in the last class, use if, but if you have condition check, but
if you want to use also the loop, okay, then you can use while loop, okay, and in one more,
good example, where you can use while, if you have a requirement, if you have a requirement
where you don't know till what time I keep on running this task, so I have some lines
of code and what lines of code will do, it will do something for you, it will do some
task for you and we don't know how much time we would like to run this task or this line
of code, maybe one time, maybe infinite, maybe 10 times, maybe 20 times, right, in this scenario,
in this scenario, right, if you have this kind of requirement, just keep on running
this code, keep on running this code, okay, till the time we require, in this case we
use while loop, so guys don't be overwhelmed with this particular point what I am discussing
right now, when in the two or three days when I start with full loop, I will compare this
point because sometime, sometime it will be harder to take the decision what to use, full
loop or the while loop, so I have lots of example, I will explain you when I go for
full loop, okay, when to use full loop and when to use while loop, right, because lot
of time I have seen, we are trying to solving something that we have to solve with full
loop or we are trying to solve with while loop, okay, thing will solve, it's not about
that you can't solve, but it will impact the performance, it will also impact some other
things also, so in upcoming class, I will explain you when to use while loop and when
to use full loop, but right now, right now, according to our requirement, we have to use
while loop, so what is our requirement, our requirement is to run this menu, this menu,
okay, my point guys, you would like to run this menu, alright, for example when I say
press one, I don't want my menu to be closed, again my menu will prompt, okay, again my
menu will prompt, like this, then I press two, again the menu prompt, what you want
to do next, okay, but point guys here, if you see this example, what you want, you want
a loop, but how many time this loop will run, again I am repeating, how many time you want
to, you want this loop will run, do you have any answer for this point, right, again I
am asking, right, I give this tool to you, right, and if I ask you, how many times you
want this menu will come up, again run in the loop, one, two, hundred, nobody knows,
you know, why, because we don't know how many times we want, right, maybe sometimes we want
two or sometimes we want hundred times, sometimes we want maybe running forever, okay, if you
have this kind of requirement come up or this kind of use case come up, right, then this
use case is normally and only be solved by while loop only, right, in the for loop I
will show you, when I go for loop, it's not good practice or maybe sometimes for loop
doesn't solve this point, even though they are loop also, okay, so in the, when I explain
you for loop, I will ask you to do the same thing, it will be very tedious or maybe sometime
won't work, right, so if you have this kind of requirement, you are created this kind
of menu and we don't know how much time the guy who are using this one are going to use
it, maybe once, maybe hundreds of times, there you can put this menu in the while loop, okay,
so let's solve this part, so I explain you guys what is while loop and one use case we
are having, we are trying to solve you, solve it with the while loop, so logic simple, first
I ask you, do you want to run local or the remote, they say local, because they say local,
they say local, I will, you know, run this particular command and like date command actually
without SSS, it means I run this menu in my local system, right, but you how much many
time you want to run it, we don't know, okay, so what we can do, right, in the front and
the top of the menu, right, we write while loop or because we don't know how much time
we want, if you say just run 10 times or 20 times, we can write I is less than equals
to 10, something like this, but we don't know how much time we want, so in this scenario,
we always want to like to run infinite and infinite doesn't means you have to run this
menu infinite, we can control the infinite also, what I mean by this, I will explain
you in a minute, right, technically, what I am doing, as soon as you give your task
local or the remote, right, I ask my while loop to keep on running and what I want like
to do, what keep on running, the keep on running this entire code from here till here and because
the entire code is a part of the while loop, so I highlighted this complete code and I
press tab, tab and as soon as I press tab, my this complete code is indent with respect
to while loop, because what I want, what I want, right, this complete code would be the
part of my while loop, that's all guys, whatever we are looking for is been done and understand
one thing in the python, we doesn't start curly braces and with curly braces, right,
so we don't have to do anything and true is a boolean here, it is in should be in the
capital letter F or T would be false or true would be in the boolean, that means in the
capital letter, it means they are the predefined keyword for the boolean, okay, so in this
scenario while see true and because they see true, so they run this code, here they ask
one press enter a choice, I say one and after I say one, they run this code and they run
this code, again come back to me as a while loop, again they print the menu, so what we
are looking for is very straight forward, there is no criticality, right, so let me
show you to run this particular menu, okay, so I think I have given some extra tab, where
I have given, I don't know where I have given, okay, so I think I have given some extra tab,
somewhere they ask, I have given some indent as an extra, where they are asking, considering
use of tab and spaces in the, what might, what might, so I think I have given some extra
tab, consistent use of indent as an, typically, you know, in python, the good practice is
not to use tab actually, I normally like to use tab, so one minute, okay, so this is the
one, I don't know while copying past something happened, one minute, let me check, but I
think you guys got the idea, right, the use of the while loop, alright, and how we gonna
use this, okay, I don't know, let me check my code again, line 38, they are saying, 38
is this one, so if, if else, I don't know, let me check my code again, line 38, they
are saying, 38, I don't know, error is because of some indentation, I believe, or maybe some
kind of tab, extra tab here, because, you know what, I opened this code in my gedit,
but I started my code in this map, you know, this particular editor, sometimes editor also
have some different internal key mapping, right, so this might be the reason, right,
so what to do, I haven't created, so one minute, let me test the same code, so guys, I think
you just go and try, because some specific character come up, I don't want to waste the
time in this live training, so technically some, some spaces I missed somewhere, if you
see, I don't have to check every spaces here, so I just want you just go and try which space
I have missed here, okay, some spaces I have missed, okay, so this is the space, this is
the space, and just for testing, you just go and use, remove the spaces like this and
tab, again, so this was one of the way, because we have some kind of specific character sometimes
come up, they are not visible, so just go and start removing all the space, back space
like this, because some specific character doesn't visible, right, so to do in this way,
I think it will be solved, okay, so if you see guys, now the error been changed to line
3, right, you know, before they are showing me 38 line, now they are showing me 41, because
I created this program in vi editor, then today I don't know why I open with, with gedit
different editor, and sometime all the editor has their internal tabbing, you know, characters
spaces, okay, that might be reason, we always recommend instead of use tab, you use space
with tab, right, so just because some character is not visible, so I have no choice right
now to do in this way, okay, now you can see, in a minute, your line of error might be goes
to the next line, okay, so this was one of the way, okay, so this was one of the way,
okay, now I reached 257, right, similarly you can do at the 57, right, so what I am
doing for make it faster, I am just commenting all the line below, so I can show you the
last one, right, so how to comment, so if you want to comment in the python, you can
use this one, this is the way we can do line comment, but if you want to comment all those
line, it's a multi-line, so in the python, if you want to do a multi-line comments in
the python, right, then we have this index, anything that is start with triple code and
end with triple code work like comment, so technically, technically in the python we
don't have a multi-line comment, if you remember guys, I show you this particular syntax, this
particular syntax where we can assign multiple string or multi-line of string in one particular
variable or maybe in the print also, but if you don't assign this thing in any variable,
okay, then this part or these line are, these particular syntax will use as a multi-line
comment, so technically, if you have multi-line comment, you can use similar syntax that we
use above, if you remember over here, so if you use triple code, single or triple code
double, all right, in the print or in the variable, they will treat like a string, but
if you use without function or print or the variable, it treat like a comment, so in the
python, if you want to do multi-line comment, you can use this syntax and if you have requirement
to do single-line comment, you can use this syntax, so what I am doing here, I am doing
multi-line comment from here till here, till here, okay, so my code will be commented,
now I think now it should run, so it run properly, right, so this is what we are going to do,
so now I say local, they show me the menu, enter a choice, I say one, they run the date
command and again whatever we are looking for, they have done right, again show me the
menu, what you would like to do, I say I would like to run the calendar, they show me the
calendar, again the menu come up, again what you would like to do, one, they run the date,
so that was my intention guys, I would like to run this menu, right, menu in the loop
for four hours, so I don't have to run my program again and again to get this, to run
my task, but the one more challenge come up guys in this particular thing is, one more
challenge come up, the challenge is, now if you would like to run the one, so the date
two, calendar two, calendar, but maybe sometime you don't want to do any task, what you would
like to do, you want to exit from the program, okay, you would like to exit from the program,
okay, and that is the reason why I use this, why I printed this seven, so what I want as
soon as I press seven, it exit from my program, right now it is not working, okay, so how
you exit from the program, so for this, for this in the python we have one way, so if
you want to exit from the python code, right, and if you run a function called exit function,
it will take you out or exit you guys from the python code, so same logic I can use here,
right now I can use control C to exit, but it's not good practice to ask the user or
the customer to press control C and most of the non-technical guys might doesn't know
control C to terminate the program, so to make the program very user friendly, so we
give this menu and ask if you want to exit from this program, you can press seven, okay,
so what I can do, so whenever somebody press seven, instead we run some command here, I
use exit function, so as soon as you press seven, my program will exit, right, so it's
very, very much straightforward and just giving a look and feel here, I'm just giving it a
new line, so everything come in the same line, so now if I run this code locally, right,
menu come up here, if somebody press one, it will bring the date, again menu come up,
I don't want to run my program code, my menu come up again, calendar, calendar, date, you
want to create a user, give my username, for example, jack667, the user created, again
one, date, but you want to exit from this menu, seven, that's all, so this is the way
you can do it, okay, but one more issue guys we have in this menu, okay, in the level look
and feel, means, you know what, what is happening right now, right, when I run this code, menu
come up, when I say press one, they show me the date, again the menu come up, but I don't
want menus come after my output, you know what I want, I would like to fix my menu in
the top, my menu will be fixed there, here my choice will be fixed, as soon as I press
two or three or one, output always come here, I don't want my menu to be scroll like this,
I don't want this, I want my menu to be fixed on the top, okay, that's what I want, as a
proper look and feel, and for this, for this, we can use one trick actually, because in
the terminal, you can't fix anything, whatever you print, they always go up, okay, so we
can use one trick, the trick is, okay, this is your terminal, and the terminal, if you
want to clear the screen, you can use clear function, so what I am going to do here in
my code, one trick I am using, after they show you the menu, they ask you a choice,
after they ask you a choice, for example, you press one, they, you run the date command,
and after run the date command, and complete if done, as soon as you complete if part done,
okay, so what we will do, right, we will, after this if part done, okay, what we will
do, okay, we write a command called clear, so what it do, what it will do, right, as
soon as my date command, you know, run, I run my clear command, and I am running the
clear command in the same indent of the if, right, for example, if you see here, if my,
this is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, right, so I am just giving the same indent, exactly
the same line, because there is a lx command, I have to run this with the OSDOS system,
so you know, one very small trick I used here, by looking at the output, you come to know
what I am doing here, so as soon as any of the statement run, right, press 1, press 2,
press 3, any of the statement run, they finally run this command, and what this command do,
it will clear the screen, what output you have, clear, and after the screen clear, okay,
they again go to while loop, and while loop again print, so you know, how it look like,
let me show you the output, how it look like, when I run this, and I say local, they print
the menu, initially menu come up here, and as soon as I press 1, right, you can see the
menu fix in the top, I press 2, I press 1, I press 2, it look like menu fix there, okay,
it is not scrolling or scroll, it is not going up and down, it fix, so it look very sophisticated,
but the only challenge is, if I press 1, technically they run the date command, but as soon as
the date command run, they clear my screen, so the user is not able to see the output,
so what can we do, we can use one more small trick, right, so after my output print, before
we do clear, before we do clear, okay, I use one input function, and you guys know what
input function do, input function hold your screen, for example, if I open my new terminal,
and if I show you in the python, okay, if you use input, it do two things for you, it
hold the screen, it doesn't go to the next statement, till the time you enter, okay,
so that's what I am using here, so I am using input function, I am not assigning any value
to my system, and in the input function, I can also write one string, enter to continue,
so user will get a time to see their output, and after they see the output, they press
enter, as soon as they press enter, input go to the next line, next time I clear my
screen, okay, so finally, sorry, finally how it look like, when I run my code, first time
they show me the menu here, even though first time also I can write one more clear in the
top after this line, so again, the first time also the menu will fix there, okay, but as
soon as I press one, now my date command come up here, and here they ask me to enter, to
continue, because input function is there, so as soon as I enter, hit enter, they go
to the next line, and after they go to the next line, they clear the screen, and they
go back again in the while loop, because I put while loop there, and in the first line
of while loop is again my menu, so menu come up, now one, date, enter to continue, two,
calendar, enter to continue, one, date, enter to continue, press seven, exit out, now it
looks a bit better, in terms of management, in terms of look and feel, plus by solving
this lot of challenges, we also learn lot of new things also, where to place the code,
we learn about the while loop, and other kind of thing, similarly you can do with remote
system also SSS, exactly same thing, even though you don't have to change anything,
the similar code will work for you, what you have to do here only extra, if my location
is local, press enter to continue, if my location is remote, in the last class we have done,
again you also put here same clear screen and that part, so it's all about your artistic
mind where you have to place your code, because the code run line by line, so wherever you
place your code, the thing accordingly work, so today guys we have learnt about the while
loop, plus some small trick we used to do those things, so guys till the time this initial
lecture is going on, I am trying to keep my lecture small, so you can see that I have
easily grasped the thing and also practiced right, because you know what I have given
you the idea how to use while loop, now you have to use this logic to keep on increasing
your menu, so whatever you will learn till the date, you convert this thing into menu,
so menu would be again two, do you want to configure so locally or the remote, or those
guys who also learning docker, they also put here, press fire to implement docker or docker
images or whatever you guys learn in the docker class, you can do till here, so what
I am doing again, I am not taking the next class, next topic today, we have learnt about
the while loop, I want, don't copy my code, everybody has a different way to write the
code, even though next time if I run my code or create my code again, it would be again
very different look and feel, maybe my menu will be go in the different way, I arrange
my code in different way, so use get the concept, get the syntax actually and try to create
from the scratch, ok guys believe me if you try to create from the scratch, you will able
to create hundreds and thousands of lines of code, but if you try to get the syntax,
get the logic from my code, you would be confused, this is normal way, even though sometime the
some code is very simple, we try to understand from the code, that looks very confusing,
but if you start building by your own, believe me it looks so simple and you create hundred
time more complex code in this particular part, till this part, so that's my suggestion,
so don't try to type exactly what I am doing, just do in your flow, just write one or two
lines, save it, run it, line again add two or three lines, save it, run it, technically
we haven't done anything complex here, just we have learnt a for a while loop, and I use
this concept to solving something in our project part, right, so that's all guys for today
and try to build, tomorrow I will enhance some more thing, and again a lot of challenges
we have in this code, project is just started, so we keep on enhancing new features and new
new features of linux and python we keep on learning also right, so I am enabling my chat
box and if you have any doubt, any queries till here, you can ask me guys.
So, my chat box is started, so any queries you can ask me till here, but I highly encourage
and highly recommend you guys that don't try to copy my code even though I have shared
with you guys, that you guys can copy my code, I have shared with you guys that you can copy
my code, and I suggest to do create by your own, and you can see your own internal artistic
might come out and you know, you create the same code in better way and the different
approach right, so let's see some question guys, yes you can use and and or also, so
anything that give you output true or false you can use in while or if statement, exit
and break, zero day here, exit means completely terminate your program, but if you use break,
so normally in the while loop or for loop we use the break, so if while loop is keep
on going on, if you want to break the while loop, so we use the break keyword inside the
while or for loop, it only break while loop, it doesn't terminate your complete program,
but if you use exit anywhere it will terminate the program there only, yes Anshul the tab
is actually that is a sometime I recommend don't use tab, it is in my practice to use
tab, but it is not good practice, so always use spaces here, because different different
text editor has their own internal tab spacing, I show you today my G8 is different tab spacing,
my VI is different tab spacing, but space is same for all the text editor, so or suggest
if you using tab use only similar same text editor for forever, otherwise you get this
error what I had first today, Aman I will tell you about when we start building TUI which
module we gonna use, yes we can use some command line and also we have in the VI also to see
some tabs thing, so if you want those shortcut I will show you in the next class, yes you
can use VS code, I highly recommend you start using VS code, I haven't show here, because
I just wanted everybody start comfortable with G8 and the VI, but for a greater code
is good start using some advanced text editor or the IDE, so VS code is great text editor
actually or may be sometime work as IDE, you can use it, Debade Das.
So, in the in final loop when we exit when we exit pressing ctrl c 1 then our code run
for 1, actually all depend when you press ctrl c it is not a python shortcut from your
command line you are pressing ctrl c, so it is signal from a CPU go to a program or from
a kernel go to a program, so as soon a program get the signal they will stop, so it is not
never a guarantee they get the signal there only, it depend upon my CPU allocated time
also or the queue time also, so it won't stop there only, sometime you can see it will stop
after may be 1 or 2 second may be, so it depend right, do while available in python if you
have any do while concept with you, you can use do while in the python also.
So, Rohan this will be next class topic remote password right, so today I show you some challenges
in the next class show you without asking password again and again how we can do it,
so in the SSS we have one way I will show you tomorrow or may be day after tomorrow.
Yes, you can use classes in python, so may be in the upcoming class I will explain you
how to use classes right, ok we just started python technically we have just reached to
till the loop as soon as we go ahead I will explain multiple concept in the python, ok
similarly in the Linux also we have lots of thing to discuss like permissions or user
ad and partition grub, so in the upcoming class I will explain those things right.
Right now I am just going little bit slowly actually because lots of guys are very new
and plus my intention was to train you guys so everybody can start building something
new.
Yes, Premchand you can set the screen resolution from the CMD, so we have some GDM command
or G setting command you can search in the Google for G setting command you get some
command to change the screen resolution from the command line.
Yes, we can put the menu before the while loop also, so you know that's what I have
talked about, so when you start creating your own code everybody will have their own artistic
mind, so wherever you put the else, wherever you put the while loop, where you put the
clear it all depend, so your look and feel or your the interaction with the code will
be little bit different right, I will show you my way but you can use better way to use
the things.
Will we not use intention while writing, yes we can use it right because you know first
I write the code then I put the while loop right, but technically whatever code you write
if for while right you have to give indentation right, so all the code that is under your
block of code it should be indent that is the rule.
Okay, now is your code case if if is there inside while so if should be indent with respect
to while, okay this is the one practice you have to follow in the Python.
So Subhans, Subhanes I have already discussed this was a detailed class I have already done
if you go through my lecture of IO there I discussed the difference in cat and the te
command right, so that was a very clear difference is go through lecture I think you will get
it.
So that's all guys I think most of the questions has been done and all the remaining questions
you just put in a group some volunteer will help you plus maybe some of the things will
be coming in my upcoming classes right.
That's all and see you guys in the next lecture tomorrow and we will do some more new thing
with the project enhancement right.
Okay guys good day and good night take care see you.
