Let's go ahead and create our very first pipeline.
So before creating a pipeline, I would like to go ahead and create a new group.
So let me create a new group.
I'm going to name this group as demos group, and all my demos within this course will be part of
this group. Okay, and if you see the group URL, it's going to be gitlab.com because I'm using the
SaaS subscription slash the name of the group, and I'm going to make this a public group. Okay,
and I'm going to leave the rest of the options as it is with the default options and create the group.
So within this group, I'm going to go ahead and create a new project.
I'm going to name this project as Hello World. So let me just name this as
Hello World. So this is going to be your endpoint. So if you see here,
this project or this repository will be part of the demos group. So I can also,
you know, select the group to which this project has to be associated with.
So let's select the demos group. And we'll just go with the default settings. The only change
which I want to do is, you know, I would like this project to be a public project.
And I also want to initialize the repository with a README file. So let's create this project.
Okay, so this is a very basic project, it only has one README file. And if you scroll down,
it's just going to show you some, you know, getting started, you know, README documentation,
which is auto-populated with, you know, all GitLab projects. Okay. And how do we create a
pipeline? Right. So if you, you know, just check out the UI, on the right side, you know, it gives
you various suggestions like adding a license, adding Kubernetes cluster, setting up CI/CD,
configuring integrations and other things. So let's click on setup CI/CD.
So it's going to take you to the build phase. So if you see on the left side,
within the project, you have a lot of options like managing the members, activities, you know,
planning the issues, the code repository, basically the branches, repositories, commits,
tags and everything and the build. So within the build, we have pipelines, jobs, pipeline editor,
and a few other options. And apart from this, you also have some security, deployment,
monitoring, analyzing and settings available for this project. So we will be exploring a few of
those features as we move forward in this training. But as of now, when I want to set up
the CI/CD pipeline, it brings me to the pipeline editor page. So here, if I click on this configure
pipeline, it's going to go ahead and create a new GitLab-CI.yaml file. And this is a hidden file.
So this is basically created at the root of the repository. So this is the file which contains
your entire CI/CD pipeline configuration. Right. So before I configure this, let me click on the
pipelines under the build section. So it's going to, you know, show you out of the box, you know,
it has a lot of pre-built templates available for different projects. So if you're working with an
Android project, or if you're working with some, you know, Go, Gradle, .NET project, so you could
directly use the pre-built template, just make some modifications, and you know, start using it
as a full-fledged CI/CD pipeline. But the thing with these pre-built templates is,
in order to use them, or in order to, you know, configure them, you still need to know the basics
or the, you know, terminology of GitLab CI/CD. So before I use this template,
we'll explore the concept. And at the end of the course, we'll be having a section
totally dedicated to using the pre-built templates, right. So let me just skip this,
go back to the pipeline editor and configure a pipeline manually.
So here, as you can see, it's going to again give you a sample Hello World pipeline,
right. So I can, you know, simply clean this pipeline. And at the same time, it also, you know,
gives you some options for browsing the templates or the CI/CD catalog. So we'll be exploring
them in a, you know, separate session. So what do you write in this configuration?
So the first part is jobs. So any pipeline configuration begins with jobs. So jobs are
the most fundamental element of a GitLab CI YAML file. So let us first define a job. So you can
give it any name. So I'm just going to name this as first job. And within the job, again, you can
give a lot of configurations. As of now, if you see if I don't give any configurations at the top,
it's giving me a warning saying that this configuration is invalid because it needs a
script or a trigger keyword. So we'll go ahead and define a script. So what is a script? So
scripts are basically used for specifying commands for the runner or the virtual machine to be
executed. So this is basically your pipeline code, what you want to execute. So since this
is our very first pipeline, I'm just going to keep this as simple as possible. So I'm just
going to use some echo commands and some listing commands. So I'm just going to type some message
over here. And I'm also going to use some Linux commands like listing the files. And if you
remember, we also have a README file. So let me just, you know, just, you know, get the entire
file using the cat command. Right. So this is our very first job, which only has a single script
with three commands. So let's commit this and see how the pipeline gets triggered. And we'll
also check out the logs as well. So let me just scroll down. You can give some commit message,
you can also mention to which branch you want to, you know, commit these changes to.
So let me just push the changes to the main branch with the default commit message.
So once committed, you can go to the repository, you can go to code repositories,
you can see that a new file has been committed, and a pipeline is also triggered. So you can check
the pipeline details over here, which is currently in the running stage, or you can go to build,
and you can click on pipelines. So our very first pipeline is currently in the running state. So
let me just quickly go through the UI. So it's going to show you the status of the pipeline,
it's going to show you the commit message, the pipeline ID, the branch on which it was triggered,
and the commit ID. It's also going to show you like who created this pipeline, and what are the
stages. So we'll talk about stages at a later point, it is a core concept of GitLab CI/CD.
So currently, it says that the pipeline status is passed. So let's click on this and see what
has passed. So it brings you to a different UI page where it's going to show you your actual
pipeline. So each pipeline has various stages. If you don't define any stage, by default,
it is going to use the test stage. We'll talk more about stages in the next session. And here
you have your job. So this is the name of the job, which I mentioned. So this is the first job. So
let me just click on this and see what it shows. So it's going to show you the entire log
of your job. So let me just minimize the steps and explain them individually. So first, if you
see here, it's saying that the job was started one minute ago, and it has passed. And let's see the
logs. So here, it's saying that this job is running with a GitLab runner, it's giving you the
version of the runner. And it also gives you the operating system which was used for running this
job. So it's saying that it is using a Linux virtual machine of size small, and this is the name of
the runner. So if you don't define any runner, by default, it's going to make use of the GitLab
shared runners. And it's going to use one of the available runners. And if you don't define a runner,
it's going to by default use a runner of size small. And within this runner, or within this
virtual machine, it also requires an executor in order to, you know, execute or run your script
commands. So the first step is it's going to prepare the executor. And as you can see here,
it is using a Docker machine executor. And in this executor, it's making use of a Ruby
container image. So it's going to create a container based on this image. And within that
container, it's going to, you know, execute your job. So if you see the next one is about preparing
the environment. So it's running your job within this executor. So first, it's going to get the
source code from your Git repository. It's basically like, you know, checking out your
code repository to this specific runner. And you can see that it is, you know, just pulling the
latest commit, right. So this is the commit ID, which you can see on the right side as well.
Right. So once the commit or the repository codebase is, you know, checked out, the next step
is executing the step script. So whatever commands you define in the script phase will be executed
here. And again, it's saying that all those commands are executed within the same container,
which was created earlier. So here, it's going to show you the command and the output of the
command as well. So first, we used echo command, it's going to show you the echo,
then we used the list command. So when we committed this, it only had one README.md file,
but it cannot show you the GitLab CI YAML file because that is a hidden file, right. So that's
the reason it's not visible over here. And then I used cat README.md. So it's just going to print
out the entire README.md content. And finally, after it completes all the, you know, scripts
and the commands, if there are no errors, it's simply just going to clean up the project directory
and the job gets succeeded, right. So that is how you can create a basic pipeline and run it
without any additional configuration, right. So again, the same details can be seen on the
right side, like the name of the runner or the type of the runner which is used,
it gives you the pipeline's unique ID, it shows you the branch details, it shows you the duration,
like how much time it took to complete this, you know, pipeline execution. So that's all for now.
So in the next sessions, we'll talk more about the core components like
the runners, the executors and the types of runners. Thank you.
