Let's go ahead and configure jobs to run on specific shared runners.
If you go to the GitLab CI/CD documentation, it gives you a detailed description about
the different runners and their different runners available within the runner SaaS subscription model.
So we have the Linux, GPU, Windows and the MacOS runners. And as you can see,
the Windows and the MacOS are currently in the beta version. And if you go to that specific
runner, it also talks about the details about the runner that it makes use of the Google
Container-Optimized OS virtual machines and the executor, which is used by them.
It also shows you the different runners available and the tags. And it also describes the CPU,
the memory and the storage limits for each of these runners. Similarly, today in this session,
we are going to make use of this tag to run a job on the Linux medium virtual machine.
And similarly, you can also search for the other tags as well, like the GPU-based runners,
Windows and the MacOS runners as well. So let's go and edit our pipeline to run
three different jobs running on three different machines, Linux, MacOS and Windows.
So back in the repository, so I can edit this .gitlab-ci.yaml file, or I can simply go to
build and click on Pipeline Editor, which basically edits the .gitlab-ci.yaml file.
So let me just remove all this. Let me paste in a few lines of code and explain what this is all
about. So I just copied three jobs. So I would like to run three jobs on three different shared
runners. So the first job is the Windows job, that is the name of the job. And in order to,
you know, run this job on a specific runner, I can make use of the tags.
So tags are used to select a runner from a list of available runners. So how do you know
the available runners? How do you know the list of the available runners? So you can always go
back to settings and CI/CD. So if you go to the CI/CD option, you have various options and settings
with respect to CI/CD. One of them is runners. If you expand them, it shows you that you can
create project runners, and you also have shared runners. So currently shared runners are enabled
for this project. And you can see that as of now, you have 80 available shared runners.
And you can also see the details of the runners, and you can use these tags within your jobs.
So if you see the first two runners are specific to Windows machines. If you scroll down,
you can also see runners with respect to Linux as well. And if you want to have a runner which
also has Docker running in a specific region, you can also see that there are various tags
associated with the runners. So you can mention the tags and the job is going to be running on
this specific runner. If you go to a different page, you can also see that we have runners with
specific to Linux, medium machines, and we also have runners for macOS and GPU-based
runners as well. So let me just go back. So if you see here, this is a GPU-based runner.
So let me just go back to my pipeline editor. So the first job is going to use a tag called
shared-windows. And it's going to run these commands on a Windows shared runner. And the
second job is named Linux job. It's going to run on a Linux medium machine using the SAST Linux
medium tags. And it's going to run a script with a couple of commands, which basically
shows you the Linux operating system version. And the last job is going to run on macOS. So I'm
using a tag SAST macOS medium m1. And I used a couple of Mac specific commands to get the
operating system details. So let me just commit this to the main branch. And let's go ahead and
see the logs of this pipeline. So I can again, go back to jobs, build, and I can go to pipeline.
A new pipeline is triggered over here, which is currently in the running state.
So I can click on this running state. It's going to show me the pipeline details. And if you see,
it has created three separate jobs. And all these three jobs run on three separate machines
in parallel. So they run in parallel by default. And as you can see here, the Linux job has
successfully completed, whereas the Windows job is still in the running phase. But what about the macOS
job? So the macOS job is currently in the pending state. So let's open this and see what is happening
over here. Right? So here we are seeing that the job is stuck because of one of the following problems,
so it does not have any active runners online. But we just saw that there is an active runner for
macOS. So why are we not able to use this? So if you go and check out some GitLab forum documents,
it mentions that currently the macOS runners on the SaaS version are in beta, and they're
only available to customers with a premium or ultimate plan. And hence, these are not available
for us in the trial account. So for that reason, the macOS job is currently not started. So you
can manually cancel this job instead of just being in the pending state. So that's about
canceling the job. So let me go back to pipelines. And within the pipelines, of course, these are the
three jobs which are currently there in this pipeline. Let me go back to the pipeline.
Windows is still running. So let me just go to the Linux job and see its logs.
So if I go up, let me minimize all the steps for clarity purposes. And if you see the first two
lines, it is making use of a Linux medium runner because we have mentioned Linux medium as the
tag name. So it's using a medium machine, and it's using the Docker machine executor as we have
seen in the last demo. It's going to fetch the repository, it's going to do a checkout,
and it's going to execute the steps script. So we just added two commands. One is the echo command,
and the other one is just getting the details from the /etc/os-release file. So it just
tells me the details that it is using a Debian machine, the version, the ID and a few other
details. So that's about the Linux job. The macOS job is canceled, as you can see the icon over here.
So now let's go to the Windows job, which is still running.
So here, if you see the Windows job is still running, if you see it's running on a Windows
shared runner manager. And if you see the executor, it is using an executor type of virtual machine.
Since the executor type is a virtual machine, it takes a lot of time for just creating the
virtual machine and then executing your script. So I'm just going to pause the video till this
gets executed. As you can see here, the Windows job has also been successfully passed. But if you
see the time it took around five minutes and 20 seconds to complete this. And let's go through
the steps. So first, it made use of the custom executor where it created a virtual machine.
And, you know, if you see the time, it took around four minutes to just create the virtual
machine and, you know, to get it ready. And once it is ready, it's going to, you know, get the
source from the Git repository. And it's going to start executing the script commands. So we defined
two commands. One is the echo command and the other one is the system info. So the system info
is just going to give you the Windows information like it's using the Microsoft Windows Server
2019 Datacenter. It's using Google Compute Engine, right? Because GitLab CI uses Google
Cloud for hosting their Linux and Windows runners. And it shows you the physical memory available
and a few other details with respect to this machine, right? So with this, our pipeline
has completed, right? So if I go back to the pipeline, it's just going to say cancelled because
we have cancelled one of the jobs, which is the macOS job. But the other two jobs have been,
you know, successfully completed, right? So this is how, you know, you can make use of the tags
keyword in order to select a specific runner from a list of available runners. That's all for now.
Thank you.
