Let's talk about artifacts and how they can be used for storing data,
which gets generated when a job gets executed.
So again, we'll go back to the YAML syntax reference.
And if you go to jobs, we have an artifact section.
And it says that, you know, artifacts can be used to specify
which files to be saved as job artifacts.
And this could be, you know, a list of files or directories,
that are attached to the job when it is successful, failed, or always.
And by default, you know, these artifacts are automatically downloaded to all the other jobs.
So if you have three jobs, and if the first job created an artifact,
so the other two jobs also get access to the artifacts automatically.
And if you want to control this, it can be controlled using the dependencies keyword as well.
So we'll talk about the dependencies keyword in the upcoming sessions.
And apart from that, if you're using the needs keyword,
jobs can only download artifacts from the jobs which are defined in the needs configuration.
And not only this, any artifacts which are generated,
so these are sent to GitLab after the job finishes.
And these are also available for download within the GitLab UI,
if the size is smaller than the maximum artifact size.
So what are the options we have?
So if you see here, we have a lot of options.
So you can define the path which needs to be, you know, saved as an artifact,
you can also give some expiry time.
So the default expiry time of artifacts is 30 days,
but you can also give your own expiry time.
It could be in seconds, minutes, combination of minutes and seconds, hours, months, years,
weeks, and even never as well based on your subscription model.
And you can also expose the artifacts within the Merge Request UI for review purposes,
if required, using the expose as, you know, function.
You can give each artifact a unique name in order to identify it, you know, uniquely.
And you can also, you know, create artifacts based on the job, you know, status.
So if you want, you can, you know, create artifacts if a job fails or if a job succeeds.
So you can use, you know, the when keyword to define when the artifact should be created,
right?
So with this, let's try to configure artifacts for one of our jobs.
So I would like to create an artifact within the build job,
because this is where we are creating the dragon.txt file.
And this is the file which needs to be, you know, accessed in the later jobs,
which is the test and the deploy job.
So what I can do here is, so I can go back to the build job.
So here, if I do control space, it's going to show me all the, you know,
different keywords, which I can use at this specific point.
I'll just select the Artifact option.
And it's just going to give me some, you know, default values.
So let me just go with a couple of default values.
Like, you know, I want to create the artifact when the job is successfully completed.
So I'm going to use when as on success.
Expiry, you can use the default 30 days,
or you can change this to three days or based on your requirement, any other value.
Let me use a unique name for the artifact.
I'll just save this as, you know, dragon.txt file.
And I also need to give the path, which is the important one, right?
So which file do I want to, you know, create an artifact for?
So the name of the file is there in the root directory.
So I'll just use dragon.txt as the name.
And that's it.
So I think I don't need to define anything else, because by default,
automatically, the artifact will be available for the later jobs, right?
So let's try to commit the changes and see how this works.
So let's be there.
So there's a typo.
Okay.
So let me just commit the changes.
So let's go to pipelines.
Let me refresh the page.
A new pipeline got created.
Okay, so I'll just pause the job till all the jobs are completed.
And now we can see that the pipeline has been successfully completed and passed.
So let's go ahead and see the logs and see what changed now.
So let's go with the build job.
And in the build job, you can see that we have a new step called
uploading artifacts for successful jobs,
because we have given a condition when it is equal to one success.
And if you see here, it's, you know,
it's going to find the dragon.txt file based on the path which we have given,
and it's going to upload it, right?
So here it's going to upload it,
and it's also going to have the expiry time within the, you know, request as well.
So once it is uploaded, it will be accessible for the next jobs as well.
So I can see here 201 created, which means, I guess,
the artifact has been archived successfully.
Apart from that, on the right side of the, you know, logs,
you can also see that this job has some artifacts.
And you can also download them or browse them based on the requirements.
So if I click on browse, it's going to take me to, you know, the Artifact UI,
where I can, you know, quickly, you know, check out,
or I think it's giving me another Ingress URL.
So let me redirect to the URL.
It opened the file or downloaded a file for me.
So I can quickly check out, like, what is the file which was archived?
Okay, so let me close this.
Let me go back to the pipeline.
So now the job artifact has been uploaded.
So let's see how it was downloaded and used in the test and the deploy job.
So if I go to the test job,
in the test job, after, you know, it has checked out the Git repository.
So there is an additional step called downloading artifacts.
And in this step, it's going to download the artifacts from the build job.
So this is the name of the job from which it is, you know,
downloading the artifact.
And it's saying that, you know,
it's downloading the artifacts from storage.googleapis.com.
So I guess GitLab internally is making use of GCP, okay,
for also, you know, storing the artifacts.
And once the artifact is downloaded, you can see the response status is 200 OK.
So now this machine or this runner has access to the dragon.txt file.
And hence, it can, you know, execute the command successfully.
The same thing should also be seen in the deploy job.
You can go to the deploy job.
Even in the deploy job, it should, you know,
successfully download the artifact from the build job.
And it can, you know, read the artifact using the cat command.
So this is how you can make use of artifacts to, you know,
save some files or libraries or, you know, artifacts generated within the job
and use them in the next jobs.
Or you can also download them for your future reference as well.
So if you want to check out the other options for downloading the artifacts,
you can again go back to the pipelines.
In the pipeline, you have this download button,
which is going to show you the artifacts that are archived for the build job.
Or you can also click on artifacts, which are available under the build tab.
And it's going to show you all the different artifacts which are available.
So for the build job, you have the log file metadata and the drag and drop text file,
which is a zip file.
But for the other jobs, you can download the logs as well.
So that is implicit and you don't need to define for, you know,
downloading or archiving the job logs.
So that's about the artifacts.
And in the next session, I guess we'll be talking about the needs keyword.
That's all for now.
Thank you.
