In this session, we are going to make some changes to our existing workflow,
add a few jobs, and see how you can make use of the needs keyword.
So in our existing workflow, I would like to make some changes. So first, I would like to,
you know, change the names of the jobs. So first, I'll just name this as, we're just building a
file. So I'm just going to say build file, then we are testing a file, right, I'm just going to say
test file. And for the deploy job, let's say we want to deploy to the, you know, AWS EC2,
you know, virtual machine. So I'm just going to rename the job names. And also within the build
job, I would like to remove the sleep command. And in the test, even in the test, I would like
to remove the sleep command. Okay, so so far, we have three jobs, build, test and deploy.
But before deploying, so what we would like to do is I want to make use of Docker,
create some Docker images, test the Docker image and push the Docker image to Docker Hub,
and then deploy the Docker image to Amazon EC2 instance. So for doing that, you can add
multiple Docker jobs. So I just copy-paste the jobs and explain what I've done here.
So I've added three new jobs. So these, the names of the jobs are Docker build,
Docker testing, and Docker push. So let me explain what I've written over here.
So in the Docker build job, of course, it's going to make use of the stage called as
Docker. I mean, all the three jobs which are there in Docker are going to use the stage Docker.
And since I've not defined the Docker within the stages part, it's going to give you a warning at
the top. So I would like to execute the Docker jobs after the test. So I'm just going to use
Docker after the test in a stage. Okay, so in the first Docker build, so we are not going to
really build anything. For the time being, we will be doing that in the later sessions. So for the
time being, I'm just going to use some echo commands just to run the jobs and explain the
needs keyword. So we are going to use Docker build to build an image. I'm going to use a sleep command
to sleep this job for 15 seconds. Then I have a Docker testing job, which uses the same Docker
stage. It's also going to run an echo command, but it's also going to fail the job. I'm explicitly
using exit one code, which is going to fail the job. And then we have the Docker push
in a stage, which is going to again use the Docker stage. And it's going to use a couple of
echo commands for logging to Docker and pushing to Docker. So within the test job or the Docker
test job, let me also add a sleep command for 10 seconds. Okay. So this is how I have defined
three new jobs. And if you want to visualize this, you can click on the visualize, it's going to show
you a new Docker stage going to run three jobs. And by default, if you have multiple jobs within
a stage, all the jobs will be running in parallel. They don't run in sequence. So first, let's see
the default behavior, and then, you know, modify the behavior as per our requirement.
So let me quickly go back and commit. So let's commit this.
Let's go to Pipeline and see them in action.
So we have various jobs, as you can see here. So we have the build test in Docker, we have
three jobs, and we have deployed. So total, we have around six jobs, and all the six jobs can
also be, you know, viewed here. Okay. So currently, it is there in the build phase. So I'll just pause
the video till it comes to the Docker stage. As you can see here, currently, it has come to the
Docker stage. And if you see all the three jobs are currently in a running state. So all the three
jobs will be running in parallel in three different virtual machines. So let's see which one gets
executed first and how the execution order is going to work. So the ideal execution order is that,
you know, you need to complete the build first, then the testing and the push. But as you can see
here, as of now, the push job has been completed first, which is illogical, because even, you know,
without building a Docker image, you can't push the image, it should ideally give you an error
in real-time scenarios. So here it is successful, because we are simply using some echo commands.
And moreover, if you see here, the Docker test job has also failed, which should imply that the push
job should never be executed. Okay. And since the testing job has failed, the deploy job was skipped
automatically. So if you remember the order of execution in the default thing, as I've told that
it happens in parallel. So in our case, the push was executed first, followed by, you know, testing
and then the build. So the ideal execution order, as I've mentioned earlier, is building the Docker
image, testing the Docker image and then pushing it. So how do we maintain that order? So that
order can be maintained by using the needs keyword. So there is a needs keyword. So let's try to
check out the documentation. So the needs keyword executes jobs out of the order. And if you have
multiple jobs within the same stage, so those jobs can be executed in sequence. So not only that,
the needs keyword can also be used to ignore the stage ordering and run the jobs, you know,
without waiting for others to complete. So let's check both the scenarios. So first, let's go and
add some needs keyword. But before that, I'll also explain about the DAG. So when you're using
the needs keyword, you can also visualize how the jobs are dependent on each other. So you can visualize
them as a DAG. So a DAG is a directed acyclic graph. So let me just quickly open this. So there
is complete documentation dedicated to this. So I highly recommend you guys should look at this.
So a DAG can be used in the context of a pipeline to build, you know, relations between, you know,
various jobs and how the jobs can be performed as quickly as possible. Right. And if I scroll down,
it also, you know, it's going to give you this beautiful, you know, visualization, you know,
which makes it easy for us to understand how the jobs are, you know, dependent on each other and
what is the relationship between them. Okay, so let's try to use the needs keyword. So the needs
keyword can be used by simply, you know, mentioning the name of the job, which it has to, you know,
depend on. So let me go back to the workflow. So here, the test job should be dependent on the
build job. So here before the script, I can just select needs, and I need to give the name of the
job on which it has to depend. So let me just, you know, copy the Docker build. And then in the
push job, it should wait for the Docker test job to complete before executing the Docker push.
So that is how you can mention the needs, you can give multiple jobs as well. Okay, so let me
quickly visualize this. And here, you can see that there is a loop over here or a small curve.
So this says that, you know, these two jobs are dependent. So the testing job depends on the build
job. And whereas the push job depends on the test and the test on the build, right. So let's try to
commit this and see how this works.
Let's commit the changes.
Let's go back to the pipeline. A new pipeline should be triggered for us.
And here, again, you should be seeing the same set of stages in jobs, but we have a new option.
So we have group by stages, or you can also see how the jobs are dependent. So I can click on the
job dependencies, I can say show dependencies. And it's going to show me that there is a
dependency, you know, between the Docker build, test, and the push jobs, right. So that is how
the dependency is shown in the UI. And not only that, you can also, you know, click on the needs
keyword, which is going to give you a visual representation about how the jobs are dependent
on each other. So here, if you just hover the mouse, it's going to show you that first the
Docker build is going to be completed, then the Docker testing job will be started. And for the
Docker push job, in order to start executing it, the Docker testing job has to be completed
successfully, right. So this is how the visualization helps you to understand the relationship between
multiple jobs. So if I go back to the pipeline, if I go to stages,
so let me I guess I need to refresh, it's taking some time to load.
Let's go back to the pipeline. So now if you see, it is running the build job,
and the remaining two jobs are not yet started, because the build job should successfully complete
in order to start the testing job. And after the testing job successfully completes,
it starts the push job. So that's how the order of execution is now controlled using, you know,
the needs keyword. So now since the Docker build job has successfully completed, it has started
executing the Docker testing. And if you see the Docker push job has not yet started, because it
still waits for the testing job to complete. But if you remember, the testing job will fail,
because we used explicit exit 1 command if you go to the Docker testing job, right. So if the
Docker testing job fails, the Docker push job should be skipped automatically, right. So that's
how ideally it should work in real-time scenarios. So let's go back. So if you see here, the Docker
testing job has failed with exit code 1, because that's the code which we have used.
And if I go back to the pipeline, you can see that the Docker push job is skipped,
because the testing job has failed. And also the deploy job is skipped, because one of the
previous jobs has failed, right. So this is how you can make use of the needs keyword.
But now let's check out the other scenario. So if you go back to the documentation,
within the needs keyword, it also says that you know, you can ignore stage ordering and run some
jobs without waiting for others to complete. So jobs in multiple stages can also run concurrently.
So how do we do that? So in our example, if I go back to our example, right, so currently,
we are just using the needs keyword to, you know, execute multiple jobs within the same job
in sequence. But let's say the Docker build job, let's say you know, it should start as soon as
the build file job is successfully completed. So what I can do here is I can use the needs keyword,
I can just mention the name of the job build file. I guess that's the name of the job build
file, right. So now in this scenario, it should automatically start the build job as soon as
the build phase is completed. Right. Let's check out the visualization. So as you can see here,
now you also have a visualization for the Docker build, I mean Docker build job. So it should start
as soon as the build file job completes, right. So it will not wait for the test stage, it will
directly start the Docker build if the build file job is successfully completed.
So let's quickly test the scenario as well.
Okay, so I'll just add this commit message and commit it.
So let's go to the pipelines and see the new pipeline.
Okay, so again, we have the same set of jobs. So let me go to the job dependencies.
So here, if you see the job dependencies is a bit changed because the Docker build job will
now start as soon as the build file job completes successfully. So you can also see this visually,
if I go to needs. So this is how it's visually, you know, displayed as well.
So let's go back to the pipeline. So we should be seeing that, you know, both the test stage
and the Docker stage will now run concurrently because the build job is now, you know, dependent
on the successful execution of the build file. So as you can see here, both the stages are getting
executed concurrently, both these jobs, the test file and the Docker build, because we are making
use of the needs command. So the Docker build job, you know, just waits for the build
file, if it is successful, it just starts executing. Right. So the needs command can be used,
you know, within the same stage, or you can also use this to run, you know, multiple jobs
concurrently from multiple different stages as well. Right. So that's how you can use the needs
keywords. So I'll just, you know, cancel the pipeline, because we have seen this multiple
times. So let me just cancel this. So that's all for now, guys. Thank you.
