In this video, we are going to create a merge request to explore the merge request
predefined variables. And at the same time, we'll also make use of the rules keyword at the job
level. So if we go back to our workflow, so in the previous demo, we saw that, you know,
when we ran the workflow, so it was not able to, you know, print or echo back the merge request
predefined variables because these variables are only accessible for a merge request and not when
you do a normal, you know, commit to the main branch. So what I would like to do here is before
creating a merge request, so I would like to make sure that this merge request predefined variables
job only runs if the source is a merge request. So how do I do that? So I can do that with the
help of rules. So if I go back to the CI/CD YAML syntax, and if I search for rules at the right
side, so rules is a keyword, which can be used to include or exclude jobs in a pipeline. So these
rules are evaluated when the pipeline is created. And when a match is found, the job is either
included or excluded from the pipeline, depending on the configuration. So if you're working with
rules, you can also or it can also accept an array of rules, you can use various keywords such as if
changes, when, variables and you know, other options. So we'll be using a simple rule with
an if condition. So if you scroll down, it also gives you examples for each of its kind. So we'll
be using the if condition and if the if condition statement is true, it is going to,
you know, add the job to the pipeline, else the job will be excluded, you know, from the pipeline,
right. So let's go ahead and try to use this. So you can define the rules at the job level in
this scenario. And I'll use Ctrl F or I can use a simple if condition. Okay, so how do I use okay,
this has to be an array. So let's use an array over here. So what would be the variable which
I want to use? So I would like to dynamically fetch the pipeline source. So do we have a
predefined variable for that? Yes. So there is a variable called CI_PIPELINE_SOURCE, which,
you know, has the details about, you know, the source. So let us check about this option and see,
you know, what are the different inputs, which can be, you know, used for the CI_PIPELINE_SOURCE.
So again, you can go back to the predefined CI/CD variables reference page, you can search for that
specific variable. And here, it's going to, you know, show you that, you know, the description
about this specific variable, right. So this describes like how the pipeline was triggered.
So it can be, you know, this many, you know, various values. So for our thing, I think I need
to use the Merge Request event. So I would like to execute the job in case of a Merge Request event.
Okay, so let me copy this value. So you have various other values as well, which can be used.
So let's go back. I can say, okay, so I think first I need to use $CI_PIPELINE
source, I can use the equal to equal to operator over here. Okay.
So here, so let me just quickly explain what I've done in the rules section.
So here I created a rules, I gave it an if condition, I'm saying that if the CI pipeline
source is a merge request event, then I would like to trigger this job, else this job will be
excluded from the pipeline, right. So I'm just using the equals to operator over here. Okay, so
to operate over here. Okay. So here, I'll just add added rules for merge request
job. And instead of directly pushing this to the main branch, I would like to create a new branch
and, you know, create or start a new merge request. So I'll just name this as feature branch.
So I'll just name this as feature one. And you have an option to start a merge request. So I'll
just say, you know, enable this option and commit the changes. So as soon as I do this,
a new pipeline will be triggered. And also, it's going to ask me, you know, to create the new merge
request. So for the title, I'm just going to use the commit message which I just added. I'll just
copy the same title to the description as well. I'll assign this to myself because I'm the only
user on this account. I don't want to add any reviewers for the time being. But I would like
to add some labels. So you can also add some approval rules. But I think we can't use this
in the trial account. So I'll just minimize this. For labels, yes. So let me add some labels like
predefined variables. So I'll just, so we don't have anything. So I'll just create this new project
label. Let me color this in green, I guess, create. So I'll also create another testing
rule. So this is also, I'll just give it a blue color. So I just created two variables.
So predefined variables and testing rules. And I think I'll just go ahead and create the merge
request. Before creating the merge request, let me show you the pipeline which got auto-triggered
when I committed it. Okay. So if I go back, so this is at the project level. So I can go to build.
So there are these pipelines. So there should be one pipeline which is already created and run.
And if you see this was created for the feature branch, right? If you see the name of the branch
and the commit, which I just made. So if I go and check this out, I should see that it only has
two jobs. The reason it only has two jobs is because this pipeline was created when I committed
the changes to the feature branch. So this was not a merge request and hence the rules condition.
If you remember, there was a rules condition. So let me go to the pipeline editor in a different
tab. So since I added, okay, this is I think in the main branch. So I would like to go to the
feature branch. So we have two branches now. So if you see here for the merge request job,
there is a rule. And since the rule was not satisfied, this job was not included in this
pipeline. So you can also visualize this. So if you go here or if you go to validate,
it is also going to show you that only two jobs were created. So let me show you how the third
job can be triggered based on this condition. So the third job will be triggered when I create
this merge request. So let us create this request. And of course, the merge request,
okay, let me just create it. So a merge request is created and a merge request pipeline
has also been triggered, right? So if you again go to the pipelines,
so you should be seeing a new pipeline got triggered. And here, if you see there is a
label called as merge request, because this pipeline was created when you created a merge
request. Okay, so let me go and see what is running here. It also contains the merge request
number as well within the UI, which you can see here. So let us go to this pipeline.
And you should only see that one job is running, because within the workflow, you only added a
rule for one of the jobs and only one job satisfied the rule which has to be executed
at a merge request, right? So because of this rule,
only that specific job will be triggered when you create a merge request. And if you go over here,
right, so now you can see the variables are populated because this is a merge request.
So you see the labels which I have added at the Merge Request, the target branch name,
I assigned it to myself. So I see my username, I see the source branch name, and also the title.
So I just logged a few merge request predefined variables. But yes, there are a few more
variables which can be used, you know, in your exercises or in your, you know, pipelines, right?
So that is about the Merge Request, the Merge Request variables, and also how you can use
rules to include or exclude jobs from pipelines. So if I go back to the Merge Request, I can simply
click on this, you know, the number or you can also click on Merge Request on the left side.
So it is going to, you know, show you the commits which were committed, how many pipelines have
been run, what changes have been done for this specific Merge Request, the status of the pipeline.
And if you have some jobs of artifacts, or, you know, if there are any reports,
even those will be displayed here. So we'll be, again, exploring more about Merge Request
and how it works with CI/CD pipelines as we move forward in this training.
Okay, so that's all about this session. Thank you.
