Let's have a look at resource groups.
In GitLab CI, multiple pipelines run concurrently.
But in some cases, such as the deployment cases, you don't want to run the jobs concurrently and you want to run them one by one.
So this is the place where resource groups come into the picture.
So if you want to know more about Resource Groups, you can go to the CI/CD YAML syntax reference and search for Resource Groups.
So you can use a Resource Group to create a group that ensures that a job is mutually exclusive across different pipelines for the same project.
For example, if multiple jobs that belong to the same resource group are queued simultaneously, only one of the jobs starts.
The other job waits until the resource group is free.
And again, you have various process modes which can be used to strategically control the job concurrency.
And the default one is unordered.
So let's check out what are the different modes available and then we'll check out a demo as well.
So let's check out the different process modes.
So we have three types of process modes, unordered, oldest first, and newest first.
And the default process is unordered where the execution order of the jobs is unordered, which means that any job can start first and the others will be queued.
So let's take an example and try to understand these three process modes.
So if you come down, there is an example where you have two jobs, the build and the deploy job.
And let's assume you have done three commits to the same pipeline.
So what happens here is in the first pipeline, it's going to run both the build and the deploy job.
So let's call this as deploy one.
Similarly, the second and the third pipelines are called as deploy two and deploy three.
So we have three deployments.
So depending on the process mode, this is how it works.
So within the unordered process mode, since we have these three deployments, they do not run concurrently.
So and there is no guarantee on the job execution order.
So for example, job, you know, deploy one could run before or after the deploy three or the deploy two.
That's the unordered mode.
And whereas coming to the oldest first mode.
So if you have deploy one, deploy two, deploy three.
So deploy one is going to run first, then deploy two, followed by deploy three.
So that is how the oldest first works.
And the opposite of this is the newest first.
So in the newest first, it's first going to run the deploy three, then the deploy two, followed by the deploy one.
So these are the three modes available.
And the default mode is the unordered.
If you want to change the mode, you need to make use of the GitLab CI REST API to change the mode.
Okay, so now let's try to use the Resource Groups in the unordered fashion.
So in order to use a resource group, so this is what you need to mention in your job.
So let me just copy this, go to my pipeline.
And I would like to just mention the resource group for my deploy job.
And the value could be anything.
I'm just using production as an example, but it could be any value.
Okay, so let's quickly commit this to the main branch.
And I also want to add a sleep command as well, just to show you how this works.
And I'm just going to add a sleep of 300 seconds.
Okay, it's around five minutes.
So let me just commit this to the main branch.
So if I go to the pipelines, a new pipeline should be triggered.
So if you see a new pipeline is triggered, and it is running.
At the same time, if I schedule a pipeline manually, so let's go to pipeline schedules.
And let me, you know, run the pipeline manually.
Okay.
So again, this is going to run for the same main branch, right?
So if I go to the pipelines, and if you see, there are two pipelines running,
whereas the second pipeline is waiting.
The reason it is waiting is the deploy job is already running in the first pipeline,
which I triggered when I committed it to the main branch.
So if you see the deploy job is running, since the deploy job is already running,
which has a resource group keyword available.
So any other job which is trying to run the deploy job or any other pipeline,
which is trying to run the deploy job will be in the waiting stage.
So if I go back to my pipelines, since the scheduled job is also trying to execute the same deploy job,
it will be in the waiting state.
If you see it is in waiting state.
So if I open this, it's going to give you additional information saying that,
you know, this job is waiting for resource production.
So any jobs which are using the resource production should complete
or should be canceled in order to start this waiting job.
So let's do one thing.
So let's go to our pipeline and cancel the first pipeline.
Okay. So how do you cancel the pipeline?
So if you want to cancel the pipeline, you can simply click on cancel the running pipeline.
Or if you want to just cancel a specific job within the pipeline,
you can also cancel the job as well.
So you can do either of them in this scenario because we only have one job running.
So as soon as I cancel this pipeline, this job should automatically trigger.
So let me cancel the first pipeline.
So this is canceled.
And if you see here, automatically this job gets triggered because the other job was canceled
and the resource group production can accept another deployment.
So that is how you can make use of the Resource Groups.
So that you can control the concurrency of the job trigger points.
So if I go back to the pipelines,
so you should see that the pipeline which is canceled has an icon canceled
and the pipeline or the scheduled pipeline is in a running state now.
Okay. So that's about the resource groups.
And in the next session, we'll talk about how you can make use of job timeouts as well.
That's all for now. Thank you.
