Let's go ahead and understand how you can run the jobs within a specific Docker image.
So if I go back to my workflow, I would like to make some changes.
So let's assume I would like to deploy a NodeJS based application.
But before deploying the NodeJS application, I just want to check out what is the Node version I have.
So I can use Node.js. And at the same time, Node.js also uses a package manager for installing the dependencies.
And it is called npm, Node Package Manager.
So I would like to check out the versions of both this before I deploy the NodeJS application.
And I just want to remove or comment out the timeout thing.
Okay, so let's try to get the versions of these two commands using the default image.
Okay, so let me quickly commit this.
I can go to the pipeline.
So a job will be triggered.
And I'll just pause the video till the job gets completed.
Okay, so now the job is completed, but you can see the job failed.
So let's understand why the job failed.
So let me just minimize all the steps.
So if you go with the default job image, if you remember, it uses Ruby as the default Docker image.
So all your job script commands will be running within this Ruby container.
And hence, this is the Ruby container.
It does not have any NodeJS program installed on it.
So it cannot give you the version of NodeJS or it cannot access the NodeJS or npm CLI commands.
And hence, it's going to say command not found.
So what do we do in such cases?
So one option is to manually install NodeJS on the Ruby container.
So what you can do is, you can create a before script.
Right.
And, you know, you can just have all the commands to install the NodeJS.
So what you can do here is, you can go to the NodeSource website or you can use any other website,
where it gives you the steps for installing NodeJS of the version 20.x.
So here it's going to, it's going to use, you know, sudo apt-get update.
It's going to install some certificates, download the NodeJS software.
And, you know, it's going to finally install NodeJS.
Right.
So let's copy these commands and let's try to install it and see how it works.
So if I come here, I can just paste this.
But again, this is going to give you an error because this is like multi-line commands.
So for each line, you have to properly use YAML syntax and do the proper formatting.
So instead of, you know, formatting each line individually.
So what we can do is, you can use a long command.
So there is a YAML syntax, which can be used for running multi-line commands.
So if you go to the GitHub or GitLab documentation,
so it also has a section where it explains how you can split long commands.
Right.
So it makes use of the YAML multi-line block scalar indicator.
You can use a literal in order to define, you know, multi-line command.
So you simply have to use a literal over here.
Okay.
So let us use this here, literal.
And I guess, you know, you just have to format this.
That's it. Right.
So if you see, there are no more errors.
So each line will be treated as a command and executed separately.
Okay.
So let's quickly commit the changes and see how this works.
So a new pipeline will be triggered.
So let's go back to the pipelines.
A new job is running.
So I will be pausing the video till the job completes.
Okay.
The job failed again, but with a different error.
So I think it's saying that it cannot find the sudo command.
So I guess I have to get rid of all the sudo within the before script,
which I just copy pasted.
So I think I have around six sudo commands or six sudo words.
So let me quickly remove all of them.
Okay.
So I guess I got rid of all the sudo commands.
Let me quickly commit this again.
So a new pipeline is again triggered.
Let's go to that pipeline.
I'll be again pausing the video till the job gets completed.
Okay.
So now if you see the job is successfully completed.
So let me just minimize the steps and go through them.
So it is still making use of the Ruby Docker container image.
It's running the container.
It's executing the before script where it is downloading all the certificates,
downloading NodeJS and installing it.
And once NodeJS is installed,
if you see it was able to execute the Node and the npm commands,
and it was able to give out the versions.
But this is a bit hacky, right?
So because we are trying to install and run NodeJS within the Ruby container,
right?
And it took almost around 30 seconds to do this stuff because you're manually
installing stuff and using it.
And this might be a very simple installation,
which took just 30 seconds.
But in some other scenarios,
if you want to manually install software and then use it,
it might take a lot of time, right?
So how do we avoid this?
So one way is, you know,
instead of using a Ruby image,
which comes by default,
can we use any other image which will help us to improve the performance and
also, you know,
decrease the duration.
Since we are making use of a NodeJS program or a NodeJS based application,
it would be better to run the jobs using NodeJS image instead of Ruby.
So how do we do that?
So within the jobs,
you can make use of the images keyword.
Again,
you can find the documentation within the YAML syntax reference.
So you can use the image keyword to specify a Docker image that runs the
job, right?
So again,
this can be given at the job level or it can be also given in the default
section.
If you give it in the default section,
all the jobs use the same image for running the scripts.
And if you mention it only at a specific job,
only that job makes use of it.
And of course you have various options.
So you can give the Docker image name.
In some cases,
you can give the entry point of the image or the container.
You can mention the pull policy,
right?
So you have, you know,
different options available.
So which image do I want to use?
So I want to use a NodeJS based image,
which is available in Docker Hub.
So if I come to Docker Hub and if I search for NodeJS,
it has a lot of image tags.
So I would like to make use of, you know,
this 20 alpine 3.18 tag.
So what and how can I use this tag?
So all I need to do is I need to go back to my pipeline,
remove the before script because, you know,
I don't need the script because now I will be using a NodeJS
based image.
So you can just use the image tag and provide the Docker image
name.
So let me just give node:20-alpine 3.18,
right?
So that's the only change which I have to do.
Let me commit the changes.
Let's go to the pipeline.
Okay, this is still pending.
So I guess the previous job is not yet completed because if you
remember, I'm still using, I'm not sure why it's pending.
Okay.
Let me just check it out.
Okay.
It's still pending and it's waiting for a runner to be picked
it up.
So let's wait for a minute because we are using the GitLab
shared runner.
So it might take some time, you know,
in order to select a runner if all the runners are busy.
But now if you see after a few seconds,
the job was picked up by a Runner and it also got executed
successfully.
So this time it just took 13 seconds because we are not
installing anything.
We are directly using an image, right?
So let's minimize the steps and see what happened differently
this time.
So let's start with the first one preparing the Docker machine
executor.
And here you see that it is making use of the Node.js image,
which I mentioned within the, you know,
job specification.
So this image is going to be used to create a container and the
job will be running within this container.
So since we have a NodeJS container,
you don't need to separately install NodeJS and these commands
will be directly available, you know, within this container.
And that is how you can use images so that you can run your
jobs within that specific container.
That's all for now.
Thank you.
