Let's go ahead and configure GitLab CI for the solar system project and also add unit testing
job. So, if you see in this project, we don't have any CI/CD setup over here. So, let's go
set up a new CI/CD. So, let's configure one and let me paste in code to save some time
and I'll explain like what's happening over here. So, I have defined three global level
keywords like workflow, stages and unit testing job. So, in workflow, I just named the workflow
as solar system NodeJS pipeline and I've defined a couple of rules. So, the first rule,
it talks about when to trigger this pipeline. So, this pipeline will always be triggered if
the commit branch is either main or if the commit branch starts with the word feature.
So, here I'm using a regex pattern to identify the name or the starting word of the branch. So,
based on that, it's going to trigger the pipeline always for these two branches.
Apart from that, I have another rule which has a couple of conditions. So, the first rule has
an or condition and the second rule has an and condition. So, in the second rule,
the pipeline will be triggered only if it is of type merge request event and if the merge request
source branch name starts with the feature branch. So, if you're trying to create a merge request
for a different branch other than one which starts with a feature word, it's not going to trigger
the pipeline. So, these are the two conditions which I've added here and talking about stages,
I just added one test stage and I defined a unit testing job. So, the name of the job is
unit testing. This job is associated with the test stage and I'm using job container image of
type NodeJS because we are working with a NodeJS based application. So, it would be better to use
the NodeJS Docker image compared to the Ruby image, the default Ruby image and then I'm using
before script to install the dependencies using the npm install command and in the script part,
I'm just going to run the npm test command to execute the test cases and if you see here,
I'm not installing NodeJS in the before scripts because we are directly making use of the NodeJS
job image. So, let's try to commit this. I would like to commit this to a new branch. I don't want
to work on the main branch directly. So, ideally speaking, we create a feature branch because we
are setting up CI/CD. So, let's create a branch which starts with feature slash, I'll just say,
setting up GitLab CI/CD. It's a very unusual name, but let's just go with this name as the branch
name and I don't want to start any merge request for the time being. So, I would like to test a few
things and then start a merge request. So, let's commit these changes to the feature branch.
Right. If you see, currently we are in the feature branch. So, let's go to the pipelines.
A new pipeline should be triggered because we are committing the changes to a branch which is
starting with the word feature. So, the first rule comes into the picture. So, since the rule
is matching, it's going to execute or trigger the pipeline and in the pipeline.
So, if you see, the job failed. So, let's see why the job failed.
So, a lot of things are logged over here. So, let's come from the top.
So, first thing first, it's making use of a Linux small machine as the runner and it's making use of
the Node.js image which I provided in the job and it's going to clone or get the source code
repository and it's going to run the step script. So, in the step script, it's first installing the
dependencies using npm install and as you can see here, it added around 364 packages and the install
phase was successful. But where did it fail? It failed in the npm test command and as you can see
the error message. So, it's of type Mongoose error and it's saying that it's not able to find
the URL parameter. So, since it's not able to find the URL parameter, it cannot create a connection
to the MongoDB and hence it's giving you an exit code. So, that is the reason the pipeline failed.
So, if you remember our application, if I go to the main source code of app.js,
it connects to the MongoDB with the help of credentials like username, password and the
MongoDB URI. These are the things which are missing in our pipeline. Since these are missing,
it's not able to connect to the database. So, how do we provide the status? So, these details
can be provided as part of variables. So, let me just quickly add variables to our job. So,
in this job, as discussed earlier, the variables can be added at the job level or at a global
level. So, we'll be adding it at a global level because after unit testing, we'll also do code
coverage and deploying to Kubernetes cluster which might require the same credentials. So,
let's add it at the global level. So, I just added variables and I added three variables,
Mongo URI, Mongo_username and Mongo_password. So, for the URI and username,
you can directly hard-code them in the Git repository if required. But in some cases,
even these are considered sensitive. So, you might consider adding them to the CI/CD variables
to master. But for the time being, I'm just going to use them directly in the pipeline file.
And for the password, yes, you can still hard-code the password like super password, but I don't want
to do that. So, I would like to get the password from the CI/CD variables. I'm going to mask it
for security purposes. So, how am I going to create that? I'll be creating CI/CD variable
with the name as m_underscore_db_underscore_password. So, this is going to be the variable key
which I will be creating in a minute. And in order to reference that variable,
I'm using the dollar symbol. So, how do we define the variable at the CI/CD level?
So, you can go to settings, CI/CD, I'll open this in a new tab.
So, let me just copy the same key. I'll go to variables,
expand them. As of now, we don't have any CI/CD variables. So, let's add a variable.
So, I'm going to go with type as variable, environment as all, and I just want to mask the
variable. So, for the key, I'm going to use m_underscore_db_underscore_password. And for the
value, I'm just going to use super password. Okay. And let me add the variable. So, now the
variable's added here, it's even masked over here. So, let's go back to our pipeline editor,
and we can just commit these changes to the feature branch. So, we can just say,
added MongoDB variables, and we'll commit the changes. So, we are committing the changes to
the feature branch. Okay. So, we are not making any changes to the main branch. So, if you go to
the main branch, you won't see any pipeline editor, because we don't have any .gitlab-ci file
in the main branch. So, let's go back to the feature branch. A new pipeline should be triggered.
So, let's go back and check if there is any new pipeline. So, a new pipeline is created. So,
let's go here. So, if you see now, the test or the job has been successfully passed. So,
let's go ahead and see if there are any logs. Right. So, if you see the commit ID is also
displayed here, added MongoDB variables as a commit ID, and it all again made use of the
Node.js Docker image. It installed the dependencies using the npm install, and also the npm test
command was successfully completed. So, initially, you know, it's just going to log a message saying
that server successfully running on port 3000. So, it's going to start the server, and then it's
going to, you know, run the test cases using this Mocha command. And here, it simply says that,
you know, there were no errors found during the testing of the test cases. But ideally speaking,
it would be better if you could, you know, see what test cases were executed, and you know,
which were successful or which failed in case of failures. Right. So, currently, it's not being
displayed in the logs. So, if you remember from the previous sessions, so after the test
completes, it's going to create a test artifact or a test file, which could be used for checking
out the details. So, in the next session, we'll try to make use of the artifacts keyword and,
you know, store or upload the test report for further analysis. That's all for now. Thank you.
