So let's go ahead and configure code coverage job and also work with the reports.
So in the last demo, we worked on the unit testing job, we saw how to configure,
run the test job and also, you know, check out the reports. So let me quickly create another job
to work on the code coverage stuff. So let me just copy the same job over here and make some changes.
So instead of unit testing, if you see, you can't use a job with the same name,
two jobs with the same name. So let's go ahead and change the name to
code coverage. And it will be running in the test stage, it will be running in parallel.
So both the unit testing and the code coverage jobs will be running in parallel.
So I would like to use the Node.js image. We need to install the dependencies
before you run the script, because this will be running in a different machine. So we'll be using
the same before script with the npm install command. And for running the code coverage,
the command is npm run coverage. Okay, so this is going to run the code coverage. And we'll also
add the artifacts. Okay, so let's go and add the artifacts keyword. And in the artifacts keyword,
let me just use expiry date as three, when as always. And let me give it a name. So let me name
this as code coverage result. We'll just say code coverage result. And I will work with reports.
So what kind of reports should I be uploading? So if you're not sure what to upload, you can
always go back to the CI/CD YAML syntax reference, you can go to artifact reports. So within the
artifact reports, you can go and check out the different report types. So let's go check out if
we have any reports for code coverage. And on the right side, you can see we have a tab for code
coverage. So let's go to code coverage. And in code coverage, you can collect code coverage reports,
which are coming in the cobertura format. So these are basically XML files. And this is how
you can, you know, add the reports. So let me just copy this. So it has reports within reports,
we are trying to collect the coverage reports, we need to mention the format and the path where you
have this cobertura coverage XML file. So let me just copy this entire stuff, go back to the
pipeline and paste it. And I think this should be aligned here. So here, the path may vary based on
your application. So if you remember, as per one of our earlier videos, the reports are stored within
the coverage folder. So within the coverage directory, we have this, you know, cobertura
coverage dot XML file, right. So this is the path that you have to provide. And I'm just going with
the default path, which is the same thing. Okay, so these are the changes which I have done. And
apart from this, since we are working with coverage, so code coverage basically, you know,
gives you a percentage which defines how many lines have been tested within your application.
So you can also get that percentage and display that in different places within GitLab CI/CD.
So in order to fetch that percentage, you have something called as coverage. So there is this
coverage keyword, which can be used to extract the percentage from the job output logs. And once
the percentage is extracted, you can use that, you know, within the UI. So it will be displayed in
the UI in different places. So what would be the regular expression in our case, in our case,
if you want to know, you know, the regular expressions, I think I can go to this tab,
right. So I can find examples of different regex patterns, right. So if you see here,
these are the different regex patterns of different programming languages and tools.
So we are making use of NYC NPM test, if you remember, right. So if I go back to my local
system, and if I go to package.json, if you remember, for the coverage, I'm making use of
NYC tool, right. So for this tool, I can make use of this regex. So when the code coverage job runs,
it's going to log the percentage using this specific line. So I'm just going to use this
regex. Okay. So let me just copy this regex. And based on which tool you're using, so you can
just check these example regex patterns and use one of them. Okay, so let's go back. And we need
to also add the coverage option here. So there is this, okay, I think this should come outside. So
coverage, and I just need to, you know, provide the regex pattern. Okay, so that's it. So if you
visualize this, both these jobs will be running in parallel. So before I commit the changes,
I would like to add one more job, just a sample job to show you an example. So I'll just say sample
job, I just want to run this within the same stage. But I want this job to run after the
code coverage job. So I'll just say needs and I'll be providing, okay, this should be an array. So
I'll be just providing the code coverage job as the requirement to run this job. So I'll just use
the image, I don't need any before script, I'm just going to say echo testing sample job. Okay,
so I just added a sample job. So if you visualize this, so the sample job will run
only after the code coverage job. Okay, so let's see what happens in this case. Okay,
so let me quickly, you know, commit this, add a code coverage job, I'm just, you know,
committing the changes to the feature branch. Okay, so the pipeline is created. So let's go
and check out the pipeline. So it has three jobs. And both the unit testing and the code coverage
jobs will be running in parallel. And the sample job will be waiting for the code coverage job
to complete. Okay, you can also visualize this using the dependencies tab as well. Okay.
Okay, so as you can see here, our pipeline has failed for the unit testing job which was successfully
passed, but the code coverage job failed. Since the code coverage job failed, the sample job
will be skipped, because the sample job depends on the code coverage job. And since it is failing,
the sample job will not be triggered. Okay, so let us see what is failing in the code coverage job.
So if I go back to the code coverage job, so you should see a lot of logs. So
it did run the NPM install command to install the dependencies. And it started running the
NPM run coverage where it is running the NYC command. Okay. And one of the outputs,
it's going to give you the Cobertura XML report. Okay, so if I go down, it's going to show you
all the, you know, test cases, which it ran. And at the end, it's also going to give you
an error. It's saying that the coverage of the lines is currently at 88.88%, which does not
meet the global threshold of 90%. So if you remember, we defined a threshold of, you know,
90 lines within the package.json file. Since it did not reach this 90%, it failed the, you know,
job. Right. So again, since the job is giving you an error, the job is in a failed state.
But I want to show you a couple of other things. So one more thing, if you see on the right side
is the coverage. So how am I getting this coverage percentage over here. So this is available because
we are making use of the coverage keyword. So it is going to make use of this regex,
it's going to pull out this percentage, you know, from the job logs, and it will be displayed in a
couple of different places. So one place is within the job, it's going to show you the coverage is
over here 88%. So let me go back to the pipeline. So it also shows me that there is one failed job,
which is code coverage. And it's also going to show me the last 10 lines of the job logs,
which basically shows me if there are any warnings or you know, why it, you know, failed
and the error message. And it shows me the test cases. So this is with respect to the
unit testing job. So nothing to look over here. So if I go to the jobs tab, of course, I have three
jobs, a unit testing, code coverage and sample job. And if you see for the code coverage,
it's also displaying the percentage in this UI as well. Again, this is provided by the,
you know, the coverage option. Okay, so that's about the coverage keyword. But this sample job
was not triggered, right? So if you go back to the jobs, this was skipped,
because the code coverage job is failing, which is required for the sample job.
So there might be some scenarios where you want to, you know, continue executing the pipeline,
even if a job fails. So how do you do that? So we'll check it out in the next session.
