Let's go ahead and understand how to ignore job failures and continue processing the other jobs
within the pipeline. So if you remember, in the previous job, when the code coverage job failed,
it skipped the other job which was dependent on it. But in some cases, you know, you might want
to ignore a job failure and continue processing the next job. So how to do that? If you go back
to the CI/CD YAML syntax reference, so we have a keyword called allow_failure, which determines
whether a pipeline should continue running when a job fails. So you can simply use allow_failure as
true. And even if the job fails, it continues running the next jobs within the pipeline.
And else you can use the default value, which is the false option. And when you use the allow
failure as true, if the job fails, it's going to show you a warning, but the pipeline will
be successfully marked as success. And you can also check out a few examples over here. So within
the job, you just need to use the syntax allow_failure: true. And you can also have some
customizations. So if you want to only allow the failure of a specific exit code, you can also do
that. So if you scroll down, there is an option where you can control when a job should be allowed
to fail using the exit codes as well. So if you see this example, by default, this is going to be
allow_failure: true, but this job will only be allowed to fail if the exit code is 137.
As you can see here, in this script, we are by default setting it to one. So this job will not
be allowed to fail. So if it exits, it's going to be you know, treated as a pipeline failure.
So you can also use an array of exit codes and any one of the exit codes should match with the
job's exit code. So that is how you can make use of this allow failures keyword to either allow
the job to fail and continue processing, or you can also decide based on the exit code as well.
So let's go ahead and use this within our pipeline. So within the code coverage job,
I'll just use the allow failure as true. So I don't want to use the exit code option for the
time being. So if you want, you can, you know, configure that as well. So let me just say, add it.
Okay, and let me quickly commit this to the feature branch.
So let's go to the pipeline. So a new pipeline has been triggered. Okay, so as you can see here,
now the job has completed, even the pipeline has been completed. But you see there are a couple of
warnings over here. So the sample job has been successfully executed, even when the code coverage
job failed. So if you hover the mouse on the code coverage job, you see that it's failed
with a warning sign. And for the pipeline, it's also successful, but it's going to have this
warning sign just to say that, you know, one of the jobs has failed. Okay,
so let's go to this code coverage job. You can still see that the job has failed with exit code
one. But this has been ignored because we have used allow_failure as true. And since it was
ignored, the next job, which was the sample job, which was dependent on the code coverage job,
on the code coverage job was also triggered, and it also completed successfully.
Since the jobs have been completed successfully, the pipeline will be treated as successful,
but it's going to have this warning icon displayed here. So if you go to the pipelines tab,
so if you see earlier pipelines showed just passed or failed, but our current pipeline
is showing us a warning, which means that, you know, one of the jobs has passed with some warnings.
Okay, so that's about the allow failure. And if I come back to our pipeline, so in the previous
session, we added some reports, but we did not explore this. So what are the advantages of adding
this code coverage reports? So it has a couple of advantages. So we'll cover the advantages and the
benefits in the next session. But in this session, let me quickly show you how to access this XML
report. So within the builds, you can go to artifacts on the left side. So in the artifacts,
basically, you know, shows you all the artifacts for different jobs, which have been run over the
period of time. So for the code coverage job, it has two artifacts. One is the job log, and the
other one is the coverage XML file, right? So if you want, you can simply download
this. So this will be valid for three days. Here you can, you can simply download this and you know,
you can save this on your local machine, or in some other location if required. Okay,
so that's one benefit of using the reports keyword. So let me go to the feature branch.
So that's one advantage. So we'll also, you know, check out the other benefits
of the code coverage reports in the next session. That's all for now. Thank you.
