So far, when we are running the jobs, we are also making use of the reports keyword to artifact the
job reports into a place where we can download them or where we can visually check them out in
the GitLab UI. But there is another benefit of using the reports keyword. It can also show you
the reports within the Merge Request. So let's explore that in this session. So if I go back
here, let me talk about these reports, right? So we have these reports in both the jobs, right?
So let me make some changes and show you how the reports can be useful when you create a merge
request. So to make the changes, I would go to the repository. So I want to make changes in more
than one file. So I'll just go back to the repository. I'll use the web IDE so that I can
edit multiple files at the same time and commit them to the branch. So here, I would like to
change to the feature branch. So I can just click on the main option at the bottom left side,
and you can just select the feature branch. So yes, so let's go to the feature branch.
So in the feature branch, first, I would like to, you know, remove the extra sample job.
Okay. And I would like to make some changes in the app test. So let me just zoom this a bit.
So we have these two jobs. So I would also, you know, make some changes in the test cases. So
within the test cases, which is there in the app-test.js, I would like to just make a test
I would like to just make a test fail manually. So here, if you see in the first test case,
it's just fetching some details and it's checking if the planet is named Mercury or not.
So here it's expecting, you know, the name property should be equal to Mercury.
So let me manually add something so that, you know, this test case fails. Okay. I'm just appending or,
you know, adding a prefix to the name value. So that's a change which I've done here.
And we will also check out about the code coverage thing, right? So the Merge Request also has an
option to show you which lines are not currently, you know, covered under the test cases. So for
that, just want to add a new console over here. So on line 22 within the app.js, you know, let me
just add a new console saying DB connection error. Okay. So again, add some other details as well,
but just to keep things simple, I'm just adding a new console.log. So total, we made three changes.
So we made a change in the app.js. We just added a console.log on line 22. In app.test.js, we just,
you know, appended a new text so that the test case fails. So one test case is going to fail.
And within the GitLab ci.yaml file, we, you know, deleted the sample job. Okay. So let me just
commit this to the feature branch. So let me just say modified multiple files
to test reports. Okay. So I'll just commit this to the feature branch.
So a new pipeline should be triggered. So let me go to the build pipelines. Okay. A new pipeline
is triggered. I'm just going to explore or show you some other features until the pipeline runs.
Let me go back to the CI/CD.yaml syntax reference and let me go to the report. So I'll show you like
what are the other benefits of using the reports. So I'll just go to the different report types.
So first, let me go to the JUnit reports. So these are the reports which we have used within
the unit testing job. And here, if you see, using the reports, we can display the reports
in different UIs. So one is within the Merge Request, we can see if there are any failed
tests. So if you check this out, and if you scroll down, so within the Merge Request,
if any of the test cases fail, it's also going to show you the details of the failed report.
Similarly, if I go back, and if I check the coverage reports, even the coverage reports
will be displayed within the Merge Request. So in the Merge Request, it's within the diff view of
the Merge Request, it's going to show you the changes which you have made to the file. And it's
also going to highlight which line is currently having no test coverage. Again, if you want to
have more details, you can just explore this documentation. So it has different colors for
different scenarios. So if the lines were never tested, you can, I mean, it's going to show you
using orange. And if the lines have been tested at least once, it's going to show you in green.
Okay, so these are the advantages. So we'll quickly raise a Merge Request and check this
within the MR. So before that, let's go to the Pipeline. So the Pipeline failed. So let me
refresh the page and see why it failed. So if you see here, the Code Coverage failed as usual.
So if I go to the code coverage job, it should fail. So the percentage also decreased because
I added a new line to the app.js which is not tested. But here it's just showing me a warning
because it has an allowed to fail keyword set to true. But the unit testing job also failed.
The reason is, if you remember, we modified the test cases and one of the test cases is failing,
but the unit testing job does not have any allow failure keyword. So this is going to fail the
entire pipeline. Okay. So by default, I think we explored this test tab earlier, which is going to
show you the unit testing in our report visually. And here, since one of the tests is failing,
it's going to show you one failure, the success rate, and also the status of the test which
failed. So if you see the test name where we are, you know, testing if the planet is Mercury or not
has failed. So if you click on the view details, it's going to show you, you know, the assertion
error. So even this system output will be displayed analyzing the test result.xml file.
So it's saying that, you know, it's expecting Mercury, but the value is equal to planet
Mercury, right? So it's going to show you what is expected and what is the actual value as well. So
the actual value is Mercury, but within the test case, I gave the expected value as, you know,
planet Mercury. Since these are not matching, the test case has failed, right? So that is about
the pipeline. But let's explore this, you know, within the merge request as well. Okay. So let me
go back to the repository. So I would raise a merge request. So if you see here, we, you know,
push some changes and it's asking us to create a merge request. So we can click on the create merge
request. So I'm just going to say, exploring GitLab CI/CD as the title of this merge request.
Just want to use the same thing as a description. You can assign this to different reviewers who
can review this and approve it based on the pipeline status. And I can just create a merge
request. So when I create a merge request, again, if you see on the right side, it is assigned and
reviewed to the same person because I don't have any other users in my account. And you see that a
new pipeline is triggered. The reason a new pipeline is triggered is if you remember within
the workflow rules, the pipeline will also be triggered if the merge request source branch
starts with feature and if the pipeline source is a merge request. So this is the condition which
is getting evaluated now. And hence it is matching both the conditions. The pipeline is triggered.
So if you see here, it is currently running here. So let me open this in a new tab.
Again, you will be seeing the same results that the pipeline is getting failed, where the unit
testing is failing. But now let's try to explore the merge request. So let me refresh this merge
request page. So let me refresh this page. You can see that the merge request pipeline has failed,
but you see some additional information. One information is it also fetched the test coverage
percentage from the coverage job and it's being displayed here. So this is also possible because
we are using the coverage keyword within the code coverage job and we gave a rich expansion.
So it's going to fetch the percentage and it will also be displayed in the Merge Request.
Apart from that, if you see there is a test summary, it's saying that out of the 11 tests
cases, one case has failed. You can click on this. It's going to show you which test case failed.
You can click on view details and it's going to show you the same, you know, a session error,
right? So this is within the Merge Request. So any reviewers or any person who is assigned to it,
you know, they can have all these reports and analysis at a single page where they can quickly
check them out and they can decide either to approve this Merge Request or to decline this.
Not only this, if you go to the changes tab, so the changes, of course, the main branch does not
have the GitLab CI. So it's going to show you that the entire GitLab file is a new file.
Apart from that, we made some changes in the app.test.js. So earlier it was Mercury,
we made a change to Planet Mercury. You can also, you know, check that in a different way.
You can also see a side-by-side comparison as well. And finally, we have this app.js, right?
In the app.js, we also made a change and here it's also going to show you the change
and it's also going to highlight that these lines are not covered as part of the test case.
If you see no test coverage, it's highlighted in orange color. So if you expand this file,
so whatever you see in green, that is covered in the test case, you can see that test coverage
is equal to one hit, right? And if you expand this, you can see that there are a few more lines
which are not covered, right? So this is again provided to you based on the reports and the
Cobra Tora coverage XML file. So based on that file, it's going to analyze the file
and all this will be auto-populated within the merge request, right? So these are the benefits
of using the reports option, which can be used to, you know, show you the reports in different
places within the UI. And especially in the merge request, it's very useful for the reviewer
to check all these details on a single page and they can decide either to merge
or to simply, you know, close the merge request. So that's all for now. Thank you.
