Let's go ahead and talk about why caching dependencies is important and how
to cache the dependencies in the GitLab CI pipeline. So if you remember, we are
making use of a NodeJS based application and most of the programming
languages depend upon some dependencies in order to write the code.
So within Node.js, we make use of the package.json file to define the dependencies
required for our application. So if you see here, I'm using around 5 to 9
different dependencies for my application because it's a very simple
one. But more complex applications have, you know, if not tens or hundreds of
dependencies. And in order to run the application, first you need to install
the dependencies and then those can be used, you know, during the application
runtime. And in Node.js, when you try to, you know, install the dependencies, it will
be also creating a package-lock.json file, which contains all the
details regarding the dependencies and it's also going to log their versions as
a security measure. Okay, so that's about the package.json and how many
dependencies we have for this application. And if I go back to my
pipeline, if you remember, we are currently using two jobs, the unit
testing and the code coverage job. And in both the jobs, before you run the jobs, we
are installing the dependencies using npm install. So let's see how much time
it's taking to install these dependencies in both the jobs.
So here, if you see in the unit testing job, it took around 7 seconds to install the
dependencies. So each dependency has multiple packages. So currently, you know,
it's adding around 364 packages and it's taking around 7 seconds.
And since we have only 9 dependencies, the time is in seconds. If you have hundreds of
dependencies, the time does increase. It also goes in minutes as well. So the same
thing is also happening in the code coverage job. So if you go to code
coverage job, even it requires the same set of dependencies. Since it is running
on a different, you know, runner machine, again, it's going to, you know, add the
same packages and this time it took around 6 seconds, right? So if you have
multiple jobs, which require the same set of dependencies, and if you try to
run the jobs multiple times, each time it has to add or download and install the
same set of dependencies and it's going to waste your time. So to avoid this and
to improve this, we have the caching capability in GitLab. So you can cache
one or more files when a job gets executed and we can make use of this
cache in the same pipeline within the different jobs or you can also use the
same, you know, cache across multiple pipelines. So cache might sound similar
to artifacts but it is a bit different. So we use cache for dependencies like
packages which you download from the internet and use in your project.
So this will be cached on the runner and it can also be uploaded to AWS S3 if required.
Whereas artifacts are created when the job executes and this can be used in the
intermediate jobs within the same pipeline. So that's the major difference
between caching and artifacts. So how do you configure the cache? So the cache can
be configured for each job using the cache keyword. So if you want to know
more about the cache keyword, we will explore the syntax reference. But before that,
this, you know, documentation also explains, you know, how you can use the cache for
different programming languages like NodeJS, PHP, Python, Ruby and Go as well.
So now let's go ahead and see what options we have in the cache keyword.
So if I go back to the CI/CD YAML syntax reference, we have this cache option and
it has various keys associated with it. So you don't need to use all the keys
but we'll use some of them. Okay. So one important thing is cache can be
shared between multiple jobs and pipelines as well. Okay. So let's scroll
down and check out the path. So you need to define the path which needs to be
cached. Okay. So it could be a single file or it could be an array of files.
So you have to use the paths in order to define what has to be cached. And you can
also use a key. So the keyword is, it's going to give you a unique key for each
cache. So multiple jobs using the same cache key use the same cache.
And it also, you know, is the same for different pipelines as well. So as long as the
key is the same, it's going to download the same cache and use it across jobs
or across the pipelines. And you can define the key using a string or a
predefined CI/CD variable or a combination of both of them. So instead
of using a single key, you can also associate the key with a file as well.
So when you're associating the key with the files, the keyword or the, you
know, the unique key will be generated based on the file changes. So whenever
you, you know, make a change to the file, it's going to generate a unique SHA
value and that is going to be used as the cache key. So here, I mean, if you're
working with Ruby applications, you can use the Gemfile.lock as the key file, or
if you're making use of, you know, Node.js applications, you can use package.json
or package-lock.json because whenever you make any changes in
the dependencies, you either make the change in the package.json and when
you install them, the change would be reflected in the package-lock.json,
right? So you can use these files as a key in case of, you know, Node.js based
applications. And apart from the, you know, keys, you can also add a prefix so
that you can give that key a more meaningful name if required. So that is
an optional thing. And apart from that, you have the policy option. So if you
don't define the policy, by default, it's going to use the push and the pull
policy. So what is the use of the policy? So this policy defines what the job has
to do in case of a cache. Does it require to download the cache or upload
the cache? So that is defined using the policy key. So by default, it's going to,
you know, first pull if any cache is available and then push cache which was
created in this job. So apart from pull and push, which is a default option, you
can only use the pull option, which is only going to download the cache when
the job starts, but it's never going to upload the changes when the job finishes.
And similarly, if you use only the push as the policy, it's only going to upload
the cache when the job finishes, but it's never going to download the cache when
the job starts. Okay, so these are the different keys available. So now let's go
ahead and add cache to our unit testing and the code coverage jobs. So you can add
cache, you know, before the script stage. Right, so I'll just add cache. So let me
make some changes. So I'll just use policy as pull-push and when it's on
success. So only when the unit test job successfully completes, it's going to, you
know, push the cache. Else, it's not going to push. It's only going to pull the
cache. Okay, so that's a strategy, you know, which I'm using. So coming to the
path. So what is the path which I would like to, you know, cache? If you remember,
as soon as you do npm install, it's going to create a node_modules
directory, which contains all your dependencies. So this is the folder which
I would like to, you know, cache. So I can simply use node_modules.
And mind you, this path should be a directory or a file which should be available at
the local Git repository, which was available for the runner. Okay, so that's
the path. And what should be the key, right? So for the key path, I would like
to use the files option. Okay, so let's use the files option for the key.
And for the files option, you can give it an array. So I would like to use the
package-lock.json as the key. And I can also add a prefix as well. So
let me add a prefix as node_modules. Okay, so that's a prefix and
that's the key. Okay, so the same cache, I can use it at the code coverage as
well. So let me just use this at the code coverage. Okay, the same thing, just
for the readability purpose, I would like to add this, you know, before the
before script. Okay, so within the code coverage, I can use the same cache. But
here, if the code coverage is dependent on the unit testing job, I can simply
use the pull policy because the unit testing job would have already pushed
the dependencies. So the code coverage job can simply pull and start using
this. But in our scenario, both these jobs are running in parallel. So if you
try to, you know, run the code coverage job only with the pull policy, it might
fail for the first time if there is no cache available. So to avoid that, I'm
just going to use pull-push for both the jobs. And talking about the rest of
the stuff, I'll just leave it the default settings, which I've used in
the unit testing job. Okay, so that's about the cache key. So let us quickly
commit the changes and see how it works. So let me just say, add a cache key.
And I'm going to, you know, push this to the feature branch. But before that,
let me just close the pipeline. Okay, let me just commit the changes. So this is
the first commit. So I'll just go to the pipelines, a new pipeline should be
triggered. So it has to get two pipelines. So let me just stop one of
them. The reason why two pipelines are created is because I have one merge
request open. So it's also going to, you know, run a pipeline one for the commit
to the feature branch and one for the merge request. So I'll just cancel one
for the merge request. And I'm only running it, you know, for the commit
thing. Okay, so let me just go here. So as you can see here, the jobs have been
completed. So let's go to the unit testing job, since it is a first, you
know, build. So if you go here, so let me minimize all the steps. Okay, so you
have a lot of steps over here. So first step, it is trying to, you know,
restore the cache, because we are using a cache keyword. And it's, you know,
checking for the cache with this key. So what is this key? So this is nothing
but the key which we have given the prefix as node_modules, and the SHA
value of the package-lock.json file. So that is a SHA value. And since you're
running this for the first time, you know, it does not have any cache
available, if you see file does not exist. So it's saying failed to extract
the cache. And now since the cache was not extracted, it is going to go ahead
and do the npm install, it's going to, you know, download all the dependencies
and install them. So it's taking seven seconds. So now if I go to saving cache
for successful job, so here you can see that it is creating cache.
Okay, it found the node_modules path, which contains around 5735 artifacts.
And this will be uploaded to the Google Cloud Storage, okay, basically GCP storage,
right. So this is how the cache will be uploaded. So once the cache is
uploaded, you can again go to the code coverage, even in the code
coverage, it will, you know, upload the cache to the GCP storage. So that is
how the cache is uploaded. But here, you know, it was still downloading them.
So what I'll do here is I'll go back to the pipeline. And I will rerun the
pipeline. Okay, so you can either trigger a new pipeline or you can, you
know, rerun the same job again. Okay, so let me rerun the same job again.
Now this time, it should download the dependencies which were uploaded
earlier. And the npm install command should not install any dependencies.
Okay, so as you can see here, the new job has also been completed. So if you
see restoring cache, so now it's checking for cache, which is for Node.js
modules. So it found a cache, and it is downloading the cache for this
specific key from the storage which was uploaded earlier. And once it is
downloaded, it's going to use the cache. So now if you go to the npm
install command, it's going to say up to date. So it is not anymore
downloading any new dependencies, it's just making use of the dependencies
which were, you know, downloaded earlier. And since it's not installing
anything, it just took one second for it to, you know, identify the
downloaded dependencies, and it's going to make use of them, right. So
that is how useful caching is. So it's going to save you a lot of time
avoiding to reinstall the same packages across multiple jobs, or
across multiple pipelines. Okay. And again, it's going to, you know,
upload the artifacts if there are any changes done in this job, right. So
this is how you can create cache and use the cache within the job. So you
can also clear this cache. So you might get a question like, how do I
clear the cache? So you can clear the cache in two ways. One is the manual
approach. So if you go to pipelines, so there is a clear runner cache
option, which is going to clear the cache from all the runners. But you
don't want to clear the cache manually, you want to clear the cache
whenever there is a change in the dependencies. So whenever someone adds
or modifies one of the dependencies, it needs to remove the cache and, you
know, install the new dependencies. So how to do that, we'll check it out in
the next session. That's all for now. Thank you.
