Let's talk about GitLab CI/CD image and service options.
When creating a pipeline, we are given the choice to select a runner for each job.
Often, we opt for GitLab hosted runners to execute our workflows.
For instance, here the runner's tag has a value of Ubuntu latest.
It is going to select a runner with Ubuntu operating system,
and these runners come with pre-installed software containing the language runtimes,
package management tools, command-line utilities, web browsers, test-suite docker images,
and much more. And within a job, we can directly
leverage these pre-installed software components to carry out our steps.
So let's take an example. When we opt for this GitLab hosted Linux-based
SAST runner, it defaults to the Ruby 3.1 container. This provides a pre-configured environment for
Ruby projects out of the box. This reduces complexity for teams primarily working with
Ruby. It's going to simplify managing the runner configurations and focuses on writing code.
But what about non-Ruby applications or projects? Accidentally triggering a pipeline in this default
container might lead to confusion and unexpected errors due to the presence of Ruby-specific tools.
Sometimes, there are instances when we need a different version of a runtime
or a package that isn't readily available in the pre-installed environment.
In such cases, we can compose additional steps in our workflow
to install the required runtime versions and packages.
So in this given example, we are installing NodeJS Runtime version 20 using a before script
for our unit testing job. When we trigger the pipeline, it's going to provision a GitLab
hosted runner running the Linux operating system. It will first prepare and start a Ruby container
and all the steps are executed within this container. It is worth noting that in certain
situations, the time it takes to install specific runtimes and packages can significantly increase
the GitLab CI/CD billing cost. To mitigate this, one effective strategy is to use the image containers.
In GitLab CI/CD, image containers play a crucial role in defining the environment your job runs in.
Image containers are like pre-built sandboxes for your code to run in.
Each job gets its own isolated container with the specific tools and environment it needs.
For example, it could be like for Python libraries for a web application or NodeJS
for a backend service. So these containers provide isolation with tools or conflicting
dependencies between jobs. It's going to help you with reproducibility where jobs always run
the same way regardless of the runner machine and you can also control on choosing the exact
tools and versions for each job for optimal efficiency and security. To utilize an image
container, you must specify the Docker image to be used within the job by configuring the images
keyword. Additionally, you also have the flexibility to define other configurations
including pull policies, entry point and others. For instance, this job uses the image keyword to
execute a container that includes NodeJS runtime version 20. By utilizing this container,
the need to install the NodeJS runtime separately is eliminated. During the execution
of the workflow, GitLab is going to provision a hosted runner with the Linux operating system.
Within this operating system, it's going to create and run the NodeJS Docker container
and executing all the defined steps within that container. So let's assume that in this particular
job, unit tests are executed while connected to the production database. This practice is not
advisable as it can potentially impact the production database performance. So for tasks
like unit testing or code coverage analysis, it is recommended to use a dedicated testing
database or services. GitLab CI/CD offers another solution to address this issue as well. Much like
the job image containers, service containers within GitLab CI/CD are Docker containers that
provide a simple and portable way for you to host services. They provide specific resources
and capabilities that your job might need during execution. So we can think of them as specialized
tools on your workbench, such as providing resources for testing purposes. A service can
spin up a temporary MySQL instance for your job. You can also boost your job capabilities by using
a Docker-in-Docker service. You can increase the flexibility by creating custom services,
allowing you to tailor them for your specific needs. And finally, like job containers,
services run in their own environment, which prevents interference with your main jobs.
So service images are specified using the service keyword. This additional image is
used to create another container, which is available to the first container. So the two
containers have access to one another and can communicate when running the job. This pipeline
configuration specifies a job that runs all the steps within a NodeJS based image container.
It utilizes the Linux GitLab hosted runner as the Docker host for this container.
Additionally, the job is configured with a service container with a custom MongoDB Docker image
and an alias Mongo. When the pipeline is executed, it will run two containers. One is the
MongoDB service container, which runs MongoDB and populates the test data. And within the job
container, it carries out the following steps. It checks out the repository of the runner,
installs the dependencies, executes a unit test by connecting to the MongoDB service container.
But how does the unit testing step execute the job container connect with MongoDB in
the service container? So given that the job and the service Docker containers
run within the same user-defined bridge network, all ports are exposed to each other. You will
have seamless access to the service container via the default MongoDB port, which is 27017.
So the host name of the MongoDB service corresponds to the alias configured in the
service YAML, which is in this case, Mongo. So now that we have an idea about
job and service containers, let's go ahead and implement them within our pipeline. Thank you.
