Let's go ahead and configure services within a workflow.
Before that, let me just recap some details about services.
As mentioned earlier, services are Docker containers which provide a simple and portable
way for you to host services that might need to test or operate your applications in a Pipeline.
You know, for an example, your pipeline might need to run unit tests that require access to
a database or some memory cache, right? So you're not only limited to using database services,
any image found at Docker Hub or your private container registry can be used as a service.
But before using them, I also want to highlight what services are not used for.
So as mentioned earlier, this feature is designed to provide network accessible services
and a database is the simplest example of such a service. And if you try to, you know,
add any programming languages like PHP, NodeJS, Golang within the services, your script cannot
access the commands of these specific programming languages. So in order to access the CLI or the
commands of the specific languages, you need to define them as the job image, not within the
services. Okay, so that is a major distinction between the job images and the service images.
And talking about services, so how do you define them? So you can simply use the services tag and you
can define the image which you want to use. And you can start using that service, you know,
within the script. So how do you connect with the service? So you can connect to the service by,
you know, just hitting the hostname. So let's take this example. So let's assume you defined
a service to term / WordPress:latest. So how do you, how does your script connect with
this service? So by default, GitLab is going to create two, you know, hostnames for us.
So the first thing is, it's going to replace the slash by two or double underscores.
Or in the second host name, it's going to replace the slash by a single dash. And whatever,
you know, it's after the colon, it is completely ignored. And by the way, using the underscores
is not a valid RFC. And it may cause some problems when you try to connect it with some third-party
applications. So it's always recommended to connect to services using aliases. So what are
the different options which you can define in a service? So you can go and check the available
settings for services. So the first thing which is required is the name. So this is the full name of
the image to be used. And if you are not using any alias, so the name will be converted into
a host name. As discussed earlier, it's going to replace the slash with a single dash or double
underscore. After that, you can also define an entry point and a command which will be provided
to the container. And these are equivalent to the Docker, you know, definitions of Docker entry point
and the Docker command. Apart from that, you can provide alias as I've told you earlier. So by
providing an alias, it becomes easier to access service by just, you know, referring to the alias
name. And apart from that, if you want to pass some additional environment variables to the
container or to the service which is running the container, you can also assign variables at the
service level as well. So to see additional information about services, you can go to CI/CD
YAML syntax reference, you can search for services, it gives you some other additional information,
and you know how to define the services. It also has Docker option and where you can define the
platform and the user and you can also define the pull policies. Okay, so that's about a brief
recap about services. So let's try to configure services within our pipeline for the unit testing
and the code coverage jobs. So let me just go back to the unit testing.
So I'll just define services and I would like to define the name. So here I will be making use
of one of my Docker image which is specifically created for this use case. So this Docker image
is hosted on my Docker Hub account and the name of the image is MongoDB non-prod. So this image
contains a MongoDB and it also populates the database with my solar system, you know,
details like all the planet details. So everything is built in this single image
and you can also give it an alias. So let me give it an alias
Mongo. And you can also use a pull policy as well. So let's say I would like to add a pull policy
as always. So it's going to always, you know, download this image if you're running this on a
Self-Managed Runner. Okay, so that's how you define a service. But how does your unit testing job,
you know, access the service? So if you see here, the unit testing job also runs within a container
because we are making use of the image option. So now you have two containers running within
the same runner. So these two containers will have access to one another and can communicate
when the job is in running state. So in order to connect with the service, you can define the
variables at the job level. So let me just define a set of variables at the job level.
So here for the Mongo URI, I need to connect to the MongoDB which is running in the service
container. So how do I connect to it? So the first thing is I can just use a MongoDB colon
slash slash. And for the host name, I need to be using the alias. Okay, since I defined the alias,
I can simply use Mongo. If I did not define the alias, I should be making use of
the complete image name. So anything after colon, it will be stripped off. So and the slash,
it could be you could use either a single dash or double underscore. So this would be the host
name if you're not using an alias. But since I defined an alias, I'll just go with Mongo.
And I also need to give a port. So this specific image is using the default MongoDB port number,
which is 27017. And of course, it still, you know, populates a database which uses the same
name superdata. But talking about the credentials, yes, it uses a different set of credentials.
So I need to replace this with different credentials, which is non-prod user.
And for the password, again, this is a sensitive value, you can make use of the CI/CD variables
to mask it and refer to it over here. But just for the time being, I'm just going to, you know,
hard code the password here as well. So I'm just going to say password. Okay, so this is how you
can define a service and your job container can make use of these variables and connect to the
service using, you know, the hostname and the credentials required. Okay, so just to show you
that it's making use of the service and these variables, I'll just comment these variables so
that, you know, the job cannot reference those variables. Okay, so the same set of commands,
or the steps, I would like to just copy and just paste them in the code coverage because both the
jobs need to connect to the same database for, you know, doing the unit testing and the code
coverage. Right. So that's how you define a service. So let me quickly commit it. I'll just
say configured service container, and I'll just commit the changes to the feature branch.
So a new pipeline should be triggered. So let's go and check out the pipeline.
Yep. So let's go here. So you have two jobs running. Okay, as you can see, both the jobs
have been completed. So let's go ahead and check out the logs. So within the unit testing job,
so you see a lot of logs over here. So let me just, you know, minimize all this.
Okay. And okay. So the first thing is, it's preparing the Docker machine executor. So the
first thing it's doing is it's using the Docker executor with image Node.js 17 alpine. And it's also
starting the service. Right. So since I defined a service, so first, it's going to start the service
container, it's going to pull the Docker image, and it's going to run the MongoDB service connector.
And it's going to wait for the services to be up and running. And then it's going to start
the job image. Right. So it's going to pull the NodeJS image and run the image.
So once it is up and running, you can see that in the step script step, it is going to simply
run the NPM test. And it's going to make use of the service container as the MongoDB to connect
to it and you know, do the testing. The same thing is also done at the code coverage level.
So even in code coverage, if you see it did run the code coverage command. And at the top,
you can see that even this is making use of the service container. So even after,
you know, commenting out the actual production database variables,
the jobs are still able to run successfully based on the service container and the variables which
are used for connecting to the service container. Right. So that's how services work. Thank you.
