Okay, so before we create GitLab CI pipeline for deploying applications to Kubernetes,
let's take a step back and look at the Kubernetes cluster.
So here, I'll be making use of my Visual Studio Code Editor. So I'm connecting to my Kubernetes
cluster. So I'm using kubectl alias as k. So I'll just use k get nodes. So I'm running a Kubernetes
cluster on GKE. So this is a Kubernetes, Google Kubernetes Engine, basically,
and it has two nodes. And if you check out the namespaces, it has all the default namespaces,
except the Ingress Nginx. So I have created an Nginx controller, which is hosted and running
in this specific namespace. You can see that it only has a single pod, a single deployment,
which runs the Nginx Ingress controller. And it also has a service of type LoadBalancer. So this
is exposed on a public LoadBalancer IP address. Okay. And apart from that, in order to see how
this works, so I have also deployed an application to the default namespace. So let me just go
and check out the default namespace.
So here, there is an Nginx deployment running, and even it is exposed using a service
of type ClusterIP. So we'll be, you know, exposing or accessing this application using
the Ingress IP address or the Ingress load balancer IP. So there is also an Ingress created
for this specific service. So we have this Ingress, and this is the host for it. So if you
see it has the name, namespace, the IP address of the, you know, Ingress controller's load balancer,
and I'm exposing this through .nip.io. So let me just copy the endpoint, go to my browser,
and hit this. So it's going to show you that the connection is not private. The reason is,
I made use of some, you know, self-signed certificates for this, you know, HTTPS protocol.
So it's going to show you that the connection is not private. So anyway, I'm just going to
go ahead and proceed. Okay. So you can see that, you know, I can access the Nginx pod over here,
and it's going to say not secure because it's a not valid certificate. Okay. So this is how,
you know, I'll be, you know, making use of this Nginx controller in order to access the
applications once they are deployed to Kubernetes. And to start off with in the, you know, GitLab CI
workflow, so you will be creating jobs in order to deploy the applications. So for deploying the
applications or for applying the configurations and the manifests, you need to make use of the
kubectl CLI, right? So we have to install the kubectl CLI, and then make use of it to configure
the kubeconfig file. And then we are going to make use of the manifest files for deploying the
application. So here, if you want to quickly see, I'm making use of the latest version 1.29. And
it's also connecting to the server version. So even the GKE, I'm using version 1.29. Okay. And
apart from that, I'm also making use of a kubeconfig file, which we will also use in the
GitLab jobs as well. So let me quickly show you the kubeconfig files. I think I can use simple
kubectl config. Okay, I think I should be using config to view. Okay. And yep, so this is the
kubeconfig file, which I'm using. So you can see the cluster details, the context and the user.
So I just created a separate GitLab cluster admin user in order to use this kubeconfig file
for our demo purposes. Right. So the next step is to configure a job,
install the kubectl command, and check out how it works in GitLab. I will be also deploying
applications to different namespaces. So let me just create a couple of namespaces.
So I'll be deploying applications to the development namespace, and also to a staging
namespace. So in real-time scenarios, you know, you will be using multiple different clusters for
each environment. But since this is a tutorial or demo, right, so we'll be, you know, just making
use of different namespaces. So each of these namespaces will be acting as a separate environment
where we will be deploying the application to. So with that said, thank you.
