Okay, so let's go ahead and create a job for deploying the manifest files to a Kubernetes cluster.
But before doing that, we need to have the kubectl CLI installed on the job or on a machine.
So we'll set up the kubectl CLI in this session and deploy the application in the upcoming sessions.
So coming back to our workflow, if you remember, we created six jobs for testing and for containerization.
So let us create a new stage. I'm going to name the stage as dev deploy.
And I'm going to create a new job. So let me name this job as K8s dev deploy job.
And I'm going to associate this job with the dev deploy stage, which I just created.
So let me just name this as dev deploy. Okay. And after that, I think I've used dev deploy.
Okay. And I also want to use a job image. For the job image, I would like to make use of the Alpine image.
So let me also give it a version 3.7. And I don't want any artifacts from the previous jobs.
So I'm just going to use a dependency keyword with an empty array so that it does not pull any artifacts from the previous jobs.
And then I would like to make use of the script command to execute the Kubectl commands.
So the first command which I want to execute is to check the version of kubectl. And I want it to be in the YAML format.
But within the Alpine image, it does not have the kubectl CLI installed automatically.
So what we need to do is you need to use a before script and you need to manually download and set up kubectl.
So I just copy-pasted a few lines. So the first line, I'm just using curl in order to download the current latest stable kubectl CLI executable file.
So it's just going to download it. And in the next step, I'm making it executable using the chmod command.
And then I'm moving that file to the /usr/bin directory.
So here I'm using the latest stable version. But in real-time projects, it's highly recommended to hard code this to a version which you are using within your Kubernetes server.
So that in the future, you don't have any version mismatches.
Okay, so this is what I've done. And before I commit, so if I go up and if I click on visualize, so as you can see, now we have these three stages: test, containerization, and dev deploy.
And so far, we have done various sessions where we, you know, ran the test and the containerization stages multiple times.
And we saw how they work. So in this session, since I'm just, you know, trying to install a Kubectl CLI and just to get the version of the Kubectl CLI, I don't need the other jobs to be running.
So you can leave the jobs as it is, it's going to execute one by one. But again, it's going to take a lot of time to complete the pipeline.
And at the same time, it's also going to consume a lot of compute minutes, right. So since, you know, this job does not require the previous jobs, I'm just going to comment them out for the time being.
And then I'll uncomment them, you know, while we deploy the, you know, manifest to the Kubernetes cluster. Okay, so to comment them out, I'll just select all the jobs.
And I'm just going to hit ctrl forward slash. So it's just going to add a comment, right to all these jobs. So if I go to visualize, I should only see a single job.
And if I go to the edit tab, we should not see, you know, any syntax errors as well. So let me go ahead and add a commit message.
I'll just add a message. Okay, and I'll commit this to the feature branch. Right, so let's go to the pipelines.
A new pipeline has triggered, and it should only have one stage with one job because I've commented out the other jobs, right. So let's just focus on this job, and we'll uncomment the other jobs as we move forward.
And as you can see here, this job has failed. So let's see why this failed. So let me comment on all the steps. So as you can see here, it is making use of the Alpine image. That's great.
And then if I go to the step script stage of the job, here, you can see that it is downloading the kubectl CLI. Okay, it is making it executable, it's moving it to the user bin directory. And then when I try to execute the kubectl version, I'm able to get the client version.
And you can see that it installed the latest 1.29 version. Okay, it also shows us the customized version, but it cannot show us the server version. The reason is currently this kubectl CLI cannot connect with the Kubernetes server because we have not provided any Kubeconfig file.
So the kubeconfig file, as seen earlier, contains the details about the cluster context and the user authentication, which can be used by the kubectl for connecting to the Kubernetes cluster and to make the changes. So since the kubeconfig file is missing in this job, it cannot get or connect to the Kubernetes server.
So in the next session, we are going to configure the Kubeconfig file and test the same job again. That's all for now. Thank you.
