Now let's go ahead and configure the Kubeconfig file within the GitLab CI pipeline.
So if you remember, in the previous job, when we tried to get the kubectl version within the job,
the job failed because it could not get the server details because we did not provide any Kubeconfig file.
So let us quickly check this out on the local machine and configure it on the GitLab CI as well.
So on my local machine, if I go to my cluster, so I'm just going to use kubectl get-version.
And if I give "-o yaml", so I think I can just use kubectl version, no need of the get, right?
So it's going to give me a lot of details like the client details, the customized version and also the server details.
So even the server I'm making use of version 1.29, right?
So the server details are also getting populated on my local machine because I am making use of a Kubeconfig file.
So I'm making use of a kubeconfig file by setting it up as a variable.
So I can just search for kubeconfig, right?
So it is currently referring to the file Walter.
So let me just check this file.
So instead of checking the file, I have the file open over here.
So this is the Kubeconfig file, which I'm currently using.
So earlier I made use of GKE, but for this demo, I'm making use of VKE, which is a Kubernetes cluster running on the Walter platform, right?
So this has a single cluster, a single context and a single user with the credentials.
Okay.
So if I do kubectl view, so it shows us the same kubeconfig file.
And since it is using the kubeconfig file, I can also say kubectl get context, right?
It only has one context.
As you can see, it's making use of the K8s cluster and, you know, the admin info, which can be seen here.
And if I do kubectl get nodes, it has two nodes and the names of the nodes start with GitLab and some unique value, right?
So this is about the kubeconfig file and how you can use it, right?
So let us go ahead and configure this.
So let me copy the entire kubeconfig file.
Okay.
So let me go back to my GitLab CI.
So I'll go to settings.
I'll go to say CD.
So I'll be creating a variable to hold this Kubeconfig file.
So let me go to variables.
And I already used a couple of variables, Docker password and the MongoDB password.
So let me add a new variable.
And this will be of type file because we are not entering a key-value pair.
We are entering a file, right?
So kubeconfig file has multiple lines.
So I'm going to go with the type as file.
I'm going to select environments as all.
And I'm going to, you know, uncheck all the flags.
So the key part, since this is,
we are going to use this kubeconfig file for developing to or deploying to the, you know,
dev or the development environment.
Let me just use a key Kube, I mean, dev underscore kube underscore config.
So you can give any key over here.
And I'll just paste, you know, the entire Kubeconfig file contains within the value.
Okay.
So let me just add the variable.
So a new variable has been added.
So how do I use this variable?
So back in my pipeline, right?
So I can refer to this variable within this dev job.
So before, you know, I try to get the version within the script,
I'm just going to use our simple export command.
I'm going to use Kubeconfig.
And I'm just going to, you know, refer this to the variable which I just created.
So let me just copy the variable key.
Right.
So this is how you can, you know, refer to the kubeconfig file defined in the variables
and it will be set up as an environment variable on this job.
So once this is done, it will be able to fetch the versions.
So I'll also try to, you know, fetch a few more details like,
you know, I'll get the context details like we saw it on my local machine.
So I'll just say context.
And at the same time, I also want to show you the notes.
kubectl get nodes.
Okay.
So these are the changes which we have done in this demo.
So I'll just say configured kubeconfig variable.
Okay.
And I'll quickly commit the changes to the feature branch.
So let's go to the pipeline.
A new one has already triggered.
And it's going to run the pipeline, the job.
So we only have a single job.
So let's go to the job.
And I'll pause the video until the job gets completed.
Okay.
So now the job got completed.
And as you can see, the job has also passed successfully.
So let's go and check out the logs.
So the tail -f command, I think we've already seen in the previous demo.
So now we are using the export command to create an environment variable.
And now if you run the kubectl version,
it's able to fetch the client version and also the server version.
The reason is now, you know, it has the kubeconfig file.
So the kubectl CLI can connect with the Kubernetes server and fetch its details.
And at the same time, you can also see the outputs of the kubectl config get-context command.
We only have a single context.
And it also shows you the notes, right?
So this is how you can, you know, quickly, you know, hard code or configure the Kubeconfig file.
And, you know, you can communicate with the Kubernetes cluster.
That's all for now.
Thank you.
