In this session, we're going to talk about how to replace the placeholder values which we have in
the Kubernetes manifest files. So, if I go back to my repository. So, in my repository, if I go to
the Kubernetes folder, I just modified this. So, earlier we had two folders, one for development
and one for production environment. I just modified it to have a single manifest folder,
which has, you know, the deployment, ingress, and the service YAML files. So, let's see what
do we have here. If I go to the deployment YAML file, you might observe that I have a couple of,
you know, dynamic values or placeholders, especially for the namespace. We have one
for replicas and one for the image part, right. So, we would like to use the same manifest files
across multiple environments or namespaces, and we would like to, you know, change these values
based on the, you know, namespace or the environment. So, that's the reason,
you know, I'm using placeholder values here, right. Dollar, curly braces, namespace, replicas,
and K8s. So, these are the three, you know, placeholders which we have to replace in the
deployment YAML. Similarly, if I go to ingress YAML, again, it requires the namespace. It also
requires the ingress IP, which is nothing but the ingress controller's load balancer IP address.
Okay. So, even this has to be replaced. Okay. And if I go to service, again, the service requires,
you know, a namespace variable. So, in total, we require to, you know, replace four placeholder
values. One is the namespace, replicas, the Kubernetes image, which is basically the container
image, and also the Ingress URL. So, how do we replace the placeholders? So, one thing is,
you have to first go ahead and configure them as environment variables within the CI/CD pipeline.
So, first, let's go to the CI pipeline and configure the K8s image variable.
So, in this pipeline, I'm going to add this as a global variable. So, let me scroll up
and K8s image. So, this is going to be the Docker image, which gets built in the Docker build job.
Right. So, if I go back to the Docker build job, which is commented for the time being,
right. So, whatever image, you know, which gets built here, right. So, that is going to be
the image which we'll be using in the deployment YAML. So, as of now, I'm just, you know,
trying to get the value, I'm not yet, you know, applying or deploying the deployment manifest. So,
I'm just going to, you know, add this and still keep the Docker job, you know, commented out.
Okay. So, I defined one of the variables. So, the next variable would be, you know, namespace
and replicas. And again, this can be defined directly, you know, in the Pipeline editor over
here, but I would like to make use of variables. Okay. So, let's go to CI/CD variables.
And within the variables, I would like to add a variable with no masking. So, this is going to be
having a name, namespace. So, you need to make sure that you use the same keys which are, you
know, defined within your deployment files or within your manifest files. Okay. So, I'm going
to create a new name, a key with a key as namespace and the value is, you know, DEV
development. So, let me add this variable. Similarly, I'll add one more variable, which is for
replicas. And this replicas, you know, I would like to use. Okay. So, this is the key,
this is the value is two replicas. Okay. So, let me just add the variables. Okay. So, these are the
variables which I added, namespace, replicas. So, this will be accessible to the pipeline editor.
So, what about the Ingress IP? So, the Ingress manifest also requires the Ingress IP. Right. So,
from where do you get that? So, this Ingress IP, you will be getting it by, you know, running a
command within the Kubernetes cluster. So, if I go back to my local, you know, command prompt.
So, you need to use this command, kubectl within the ingress namespace, you need to get the
services. In the services, you need to get the ingress nginx controller service and within the
service. So, if you just execute this command, it's going to give you the data in a different
format where, you know, we are interested only in the external IP. So, how do we fetch only the
external IP? So, for fetching that I'm using a hyphen o output, I'm making use of the JSON path
to, you know, get the IP address. Okay. So, this is how, you know, I'm going to get this IP address.
So, how am I going to run this command within the job in order to fetch this IP address
dynamically, you know, for, you know, different environments? So, what we can do is,
so if I go back to my job, so if I go back to the Kubernetes dev deploy job, so I can
have another export command to get the Ingress IP as well. So, I'll just say ingress_ip
and I can run the same command, whatever command, you know, which I just tried to execute. So,
I just copied it. So, let me paste the command over here. So, this is going to be dollar and
you have to define whatever command which we just tried. Okay. So, this is going to, you know, give
you the Ingress IP and it's going to be stored in this environment variable. Okay. So, you can also
do a quick echo. So, I can say a quick echo for Ingress IP as well. So, just to, you know,
see if it is working or not. So, now that we have defined all the environment variables,
so how do I replace these values, right? How do I replace these values before I deploy the
manifest files to the Kubernetes cluster? So, for replacing the values, we will be making use
of a program called as ENV substitute. So, let me first show you an example on my local machine
and then use the same technique within the GitLab, you know, CI job. So, I'm making use
of a program called as ENV substitute and I've already installed this on my local machine. So,
this is the version. So, this program is part of the Git text package, which has a lot of,
you know, the programs. So, one of the programs is the ENV substitute or the environment substitute.
Okay. So, basically, it's going to, you know, replace the file variables with the environment
variables. So, let me give you an example. So, I have created a demo file, a .txt file. Basically,
it has a single line where I'm just going to say user hyphen dollar username is trying to understand,
you know, env substitute or environment substitute program. So, here, if you want to
dynamically update or, you know, replace this username value, we can make use of the, you know,
ENV substitute program. So, all you need to do is this has to be available in the environment
variables. So, I can do a quick export user underscore name and I can give this a unique
value. So, let me just use Siddharth as a unique value or a general value. So, once you have
exported that variable, all you need to do is you need to do ENV substitute and you need to give
that file as an input to this command. So, once you do that, if you see the variable or the placeholder
is now replaced by the environment, you know, variable value. Right. So, this is how the
environment substitute program works. So, we'll be using the same, you know, technique to replace
the placeholders within the Kubernetes manifest files. Okay. So, let's go back to our GitLab CI
job. So, here, since I'm running this on the alpine image, the first thing I need to do is I need to
install the, you know, package, the git package. So, how do I do that? So, within the before script,
since I'm trying to set up something. So, I'm just going to make use of APK. So, APK is alpine
package keeper, which is used for installing packages on the, you know, alpine, you know,
image. So, I'm just going to say add. So, I'm just adding an additional variable, no cache
and git text. Right. So, the git text, you know, package has, you know, the env,
the environment substitute program. So, after you do that, you can also verify this. So, I can
simply say env substitute and if I do hyphen v, it's just going to print out the version of the,
you know, environment substitute program. Okay. So, once you do this, the next step is how do I
use this to replace values in multiple manifest files, not one, but multiple manifest files.
So, let me just copy the relative path of this specific, you know, folder or the directory.
So, here I'm going to make use of a for loop within the script. So, I'm just going to use
for, I'm just defining I in and you need to give the relative path. So, let me just
paste the relative path. So, within Kubernetes slash manifest directory, I would like to replace
the variables within all the manifest files. So, all the YAML files, which I have at this path.
So, I'm just going to use a hashtag dot yaml. So, it's like a regex pattern. So,
all the files which are ending with dot yaml within this path, it's going to, you know,
try and, you know, replace the placeholder values. Okay. So, I'm just using for I within this path
and it's going to do this for all the yaml files. Let me just say do and I need to give the command
environment substitute envsubst and I need to give an input. So, here for the input,
I'm just going to use dollar I. Okay. So, this is the I, right? So, the files will be stored
in this I or referenced in this I. So, I'm just going to, you know, give each file to this,
you know, program. So, that's how I'm just defining the for loop. So, once the for loop
is defined, I'm just replacing the value. So, it's just going to print out the replaced files.
So, it's not going to deploy anything to Kubernetes. It's just going to replace the
values. So, for that reason, I'm still not going to, you know, uncomment the Docker jobs. I'm still
going to have the same single job. So, let us quickly commit the changes and see how this is
going to work. So, I'm just going to say configured environment substitute to replace
list folder values. Okay. So, let me quickly commit these changes to the feature branch.
A new pipeline should be triggered. So, let's go to the pipelines.
Okay. It's not yet triggered.
Okay. So, let's give it a moment. It's not yet triggered at the time being.
So, let me just pause the video till it gets deployed or executed and triggered.
Okay. So, if you see the pipeline has triggered now, it took some time, but it got triggered.
So, let me go to this pipeline, which should have a single job
and the job is in running state. So, let me just pause the video till this gets completed.
Okay. So, as we can see, the job has been successfully completed. So,
let's go ahead and check out the logs. Okay. So, we have a lot of logs over here. So, let me
minimize all the steps and check them out one by one. So, I'll directly go to the job script
logs. So, here, of course, it's going to make use of the Alpine image and it's also installing the
git text package. So, once it is installed, if I'm trying to get the version of the environment
substitute program, it just gives me the version. So, it means that this program was successfully
installed. Right. And if I come down, you can see the kubectl version details,
the context details, the node details. And here, if you see, we have also exported the ingress IP
using some kubectl command. And you can see that the IP address is also fetched and saved as an
environment variable. And then we started replacing the placeholders using the environment
substitute program. But since we have multiple YAML files within the manifest directory,
I'm making use of a for loop in order to get each file and pass it as an input to the environment
substitute program to replace the placeholder values with the environment variables.
So, it's going to just print out the output after replacing the values, as you can see here. So,
the namespace is replaced with development. The replicas are two. So, these are the two variables
which we defined in the CI/CD variable settings. And if I scroll down, you can also see that the
image is also replaced, which we have defined at the global variables within the pipeline
configuration. So, that's about the deployment manifest. And next comes the ingress. So,
in the ingress, again, the namespace is replaced with development. And it also replaces the IP
address, the ingress controller's IP address. So, this is getting replaced since we exported it
manually within the script job. And finally, within the services, it's going to replace the
namespace with the development variable. So, this is how you can make use of this
environment substitute program in order to replace the placeholders within your manifest files.
And the next step is deploying the application to the Kubernetes cluster.
And we'll be checking out that in the next session. Thank you.
