Let's go ahead and deploy the manifest files to the dev namespace.
Before I go to the GitLab CI pipeline, so if I go to my local terminal and if I try to,
you know, fetch the details from the development namespace,
you know, we see that, you know, there are no resources available in the development namespace
because we have yet to, you know, deploy something or apply something within the,
you know, development namespace. So let's go back to our pipeline. So here we have, you know,
installed the kubectl CLI, we have added the kubeconfig file, we got the Ingress URL,
replaced all the placeholders. So the next step is, ideally speaking, you can just, you know,
pipe the output of this environment substitution to a kubectl apply, you know, command. So I can
simply use kubectl apply, hyphen f and hyphen. So this is going to, you know, deploy or, you know,
create the manifests on the Kubernetes cluster. But will this work? No, it won't work.
And the reason is, if you go back, and if you, you know, check out the deployment manifest file,
you can see that this manifest file or this image also requires a secret. So if you see,
it is going to, you know, fetch some environment values from a secret file. So we did not create
the secret. So what is the secret? So this secret is named MongoDB credentials.
So this secret should contain the MongoDB, you know, URI, username and password, so that, you know,
the application which is running within the image can connect to the MongoDB to fetch the data or to,
you know, do the reading of the data, right. So this is not yet created. And hence the pipeline
deployment will fail. So how do we create that? So you can quickly create a secret.
So I'll be creating a secret here before I apply the job. So I'll just copy paste the command. So the command
is kubectl. I'm trying to create the secret within the development namespace. So the namespace is a
dynamic value. It's going to say create secret generic, I'm going to give the same name, which
I used in the deployment YAML file. And then I'll be passing the Mongo URI, Mongo username,
and the Mongo password from the global variables, right. So if I scroll up,
so I already defined these variables here. So I'll be making use of the same variables. So let me
uncomment them. Okay. And I think I'll just push them. Right. So I'll be making use of, you know,
the same variables. Okay. So in this example, I'm making use of variables which are defined at the
GitLab level. But in real-time scenarios, you can also, you know, refer to these sensitive values from
an external secret vault like HashiCorp Vault or some other solution. So GitLab totally supports
external secret vaults as well. And you can configure them and fetch these values from the
external vaults as well. Okay. So here, I'm just, you know, creating the secret, I'm, you know,
getting the YAML content. And again, I'm piping the YAML content, you know, to the kubectl apply
command. So this is how, you know, the secret is also going to be created. And then the deployments
should happen successfully. So once the deployments are successful, I also want to, you know, get the
details. So I'm just going to say kubectl within the development namespace. You know, I would like
to, you know, get all, I would like to read the secrets and also the Ingress as well. Right.
So all this will be created. But before I do that, I also need to do a few more steps. So now that we
are, you know, really deploying the application to Kubernetes, you need to have the Docker image.
So we need to go ahead and uncomment the Docker jobs. So let me go and uncomment all this,
you know, Docker build, Docker test and the Docker push jobs. Okay, so let's see that we don't have
any errors. So now we have the Docker build, Docker test, Docker push, and publish to GitLab
Container Registry as well. Okay. So this Docker build and push are important because we have to
build the image and push it to Docker Hub so that the image can be used within the Kubernetes
dev deploy job. Right. And honestly speaking, we will not be using the images which are pushed
to the GitLab Container Registry. I just added this job to show you how it can be done. So I'll
just comment this job back again, because I don't want to waste my compute minutes if I'm not using
the image. So let me quickly comment this out. Okay. So that's the configuration, which I have.
Okay, I guess the configuration looks good. If I go to visualize, I should be seeing two stages,
the Docker containerization stage and the dev deploy stage and everything looks fine so far.
Okay. So let's go ahead and commit these changes. I'll just say deploying to
K8s dev namespace and publish this or commit this to the feature branch.
Right. So a new pipeline should be triggered. So let's go to the pipeline.
Right. So it has four jobs now. So I'll just pause the video till all the jobs have completed.
Right. Okay. So as you can see, all the four jobs have been successfully completed and the
pipeline is also in the pass state. So let's go to the dev deploy job. So it has a lot of
logs. So let me minimize a few of them and I'm within the job script. So we have seen some of
the steps earlier. So I'll just skip to the part where we are creating the Kubernetes secret.
It can see, you can see that, you know, it created the MongoDB credential secret
and it's also, you know, the deployment has been created.
The Ingress URL has been created and the service is also created. So this is being done
after you're replacing the placeholder values using the environment substitution program. Okay.
And once it's done, I just used kubectl, you know, within the development namespace to get,
you know, all the details, secrets and ingress. So here, since, you know, this command just ran
a few seconds after the deployment is created, you will be seeing that the pods are, you know,
within the container creating status, but this should be deployed after I, you know, complete
explaining the stuff. So you can see, you have two pods, you have two replicas because we defined
replicas is equal to two within the CI/CD variables. So you have two pods, you have the
service, you have the ingress and also the secret created. So let's try to check them out in our
local terminal. So in the local terminal, if I do kubectl within the development namespace, get all,
you can see that I have a single deployment named solar system, which has two pods because
it has two replicas and both the pods are up and running successfully. It created a service
of type node port. Ideally speaking, even cluster IP would have worked because we are trying to
access the application or the service through the ingress controller. So I can do a quick kubectl
get ingress, and you can see the IP address of the host of the, you know, ingress. Let me just
copy it. So it has the name, the namespace, the ingress controller's load balancer IP address and
dot nip.io. Okay. So let's go to the browser and see if we can access the application.
Of course, it's making use of our self-signed certificate. So it's going to ask you
to, you know, really proceed or not. So let me proceed. And you can see that the application
is up and running successfully. It's giving me the homepage. You can also explore this and see
if the database connection is fine or not. So before going there, you can also see the port
name, right? So it's going to show you the name of the port where the application is running.
So if I go back to the, you know, terminal, you can see that, you know, it's running on
these two ports. So it's going to load balance, you know, across these two ports. Okay.
So currently it's running or, you know, displaying the data from the port, which is having this name.
Okay. So I can simply search for a planet by entering the number of the planet. If I do three,
it's going to show me the details of Earth. If I do six, it's going to show me the details
of the planet Saturn, right? So these details are basically coming from the MongoDB database.
So this also proves that the application has been successfully deployed and it is also,
you know, able to connect with the database and fetch the details. Okay. So we have tested this
visually. We deployed and tested it visually, but in the pipeline, it would be better if you can run
a couple of integration tests to make sure that the application got really deployed and, you know,
it can be, you know, merged to the main branch or you can do some other stuff.
So for integration testing, as you remember, we also have a couple of different endpoints,
the /live endpoint, which basically gives you the status as live. And you also have the
/slash ready endpoint, which gives you the status as ready with 200 OK as the status code. So in
the next session, we are going to set up a couple of integration tests so that, you know, we can,
really test if the application is up and running within the pipeline itself.
Okay. So that's all for now. Thank you.
