Let's do a quick recap of GitLab Agent and then we'll install it within our Kubernetes cluster.
So as discussed earlier, the GitLab integration with Kubernetes is going to help you to install,
configure, manage, deploy, and troubleshoot your cluster applications. And with the GitLab Agent,
you can connect clusters even if they are running behind a firewall and have real-time access to the
API endpoints. So it has complete documentation about how to connect your Kubernetes clusters
with GitLab Agent. And if you want to use GitOps with FlexCD, it also has a separate
documentation for that and how to use it in the GitLab CI/CD as well. Okay. So let's go and
configure it within our project. So if I go to my project, I can go to operate. In operate, I can go
to Kubernetes clusters. So here, you can connect to a cluster or you can also create a Kubernetes
cluster. So if you create a Kubernetes cluster, if you click on it, it's going to give you three
options. You can use Amazon EKS, Civo Kubernetes, or Google GKE. But I don't want to use either of
them because I have my own Kubernetes cluster. So let me just go back and connect to my cluster.
Okay. So let me just show you the Kubernetes cluster. So here, I'm just using my local
terminal. I can do a quick kubectl get nodes. And I have this cluster over here. I can also do
kubectl config get contexts. So I only have one context and that is also the VKE context,
which is where my cluster is running. Okay. So let's try to, you know, deploy or install the
GitLab agent in this Kubernetes cluster. And if I do kubectl get namespaces. So as of now,
we have around, you know, seven namespaces. Okay. We have nothing related to the GitLab agent.
So let's go back and, you know, connect to the cluster. So you can click on connect to the
cluster. And, you know, you can also connect by adding an agent configuration to this repository,
or we can simply, you know, just create a new agent first and add the configuration later as
well. So let me just go ahead and create an agent. I'll just name this as KK, which is
short for KodeKloud. I'm just going to use GitLab agent. So the agent name, which I'm creating
is KK-GitLab.agent. So I can click on create agent over here and, you know, register.
So when I click on register, it's going to generate a one-time agent access token and you
won't be able to retrieve this afterwards. So it's better you can save it somewhere if you want to
reuse this. Another step is you can do the installation using Helm. So you need to have
Helm installed on your machine or on your Kubernetes cluster wherever, you know, you want to add this.
So it comes with three Helm commands where it's going to add the GitLab Helm chart repository.
It's going to update all the repositories available, and it's going to, you know,
install the GitLab agent using the charts, which were, you know, added earlier. And the name,
it's going to use the agent name, whatever name, which we gave, which is K8sgpt-GitLab-agent.
It's going to create this within a namespace called as GitLab agent K8s-GitLab agent. So I think
since I gave GitLab agent within the agent name itself, so I can see it's getting even prefixed
in the namespace. So I guess that's fine for the time being, but you can choose a better name in
your real-time project. So it's going to create the namespace if it does not exist. It's going to
use some specific image tags and the token. So whatever token which you see above, so the same
token will be used for registering purpose. And it's going to also connect with GitLab K8s,
and its address. So this is the address which is used for connecting and sharing the metrics and
the other details. And for more additional advanced installations, you can also check
out the documentation for other options. So let me just copy this, go to my cluster,
and let me clean all this stuff. And I'll just run all these things. So it's going to update,
it's going to first get the repository updated, and then it's going to run the install command.
So let's give it a second. And even the install command has been successfully completed.
So let me quickly, you know, get the namespaces. I should see a new namespace,
GitLab agent, - KK-GitLab agent. So let's see what I have in this namespace.
I say get all. Okay. So if you see, I think it's just using a single deployment. It has
two replicas of the agent running and one replica set. So it does not have any service,
but let's see if it has any config maps, secrets, or ingress. Yes. So it does have,
yes. So it does have, okay. This ingress, okay. I'm sorry. I need to check this at the GitLab
agent namespace. So yes, there are two secrets and one config map. The config map is with respect
to the kube-root-ca-certificate, and it has the GitLab agent token as a secret, and it also has
some Helm release, you know, secret. Okay. So let me just check out this token thing.
So let's say K-N. I'll just say get secrets.
Okay. I just want to get the YAML output. Okay. So it has only one secret, which is a token. I
guess this is a base64 encoded version of the token, which we just saw. Okay. So that's how,
you know, the namespace is created and the agent is running on your machine. So if I do a quick
context thing, you know, config, get context, right? So we still have only one context, but,
you know, the GitLab agent is up and running. Okay. The pods are up and running. So let's go
back to the repository. So let's close this and let's refresh this. Okay. So it's saying
the connection status is never connected because I have to refresh this page. So let's refresh.
And you can see that the connection status is successful. It is connected and it was able to
verify that the agent is up and running within our cluster. Okay. And talking about the configuration,
it is going to use the default configuration. So if you want to know how to change the configurations,
you can also create GitLab agent config and the documentation is provided over here. Okay. So
we'll talk about this configuration in a minute, like how to, you know, configure this and when to
configure and where to configure it. Okay. So now your GitLab project is connected to a Kubernetes
cluster. So can I refer to this within the environments? Let's check it out. So if I go back
to the environments and if I go to the development environment. Okay. So let me click on edit.
It still shows no agent found, but we just configured an agent. What is the reason why
the environment still cannot find the agent? And the reason is because of the configuration. So by
default in the default configuration, you cannot use the agent to be configured at the environment
level. The users cannot access it. So in the next session, we will have a customized, you know,
GitLab agent configuration, and we'll also create an environment which can make use of this agent,
which can pull the metrics or some information from the Kubernetes API endpoint and display it
in the GitLab instance UI. So that's all for now. Thank you.
