Okay, so now let's go ahead and manually deploy the application to the staging environment
using the GitLab agent. And when I say environment, we'll be making use of the Kubernetes namespace.
So if I go back to my local terminal, and if I try to get the, you know, details from the staging
namespace, we don't see any resources because nothing is yet deployed over there.
So same thing can be seen in the GitLab environments page. So if you see within
the staging environment, we have no deployments, we are yet to do a deployment.
So how do you do the deployment? So you can follow the same in a job which we have used
for deploying it to the, you know, the dev environment. So if I scroll down,
so we see that we have a Kubernetes dev deployment, where we made use of kubectl,
we used kubectl and we deployed it. But I don't want to follow the same steps,
I would like to deploy to the staging namespace or the staging environment using the GitLab agent,
which we have configured. So I would like to make use of this agent, which is currently,
you know, connected with my Kubernetes cluster. And this, you know, status is also, you know,
connected, right? So how do we do that? So to understand how to do this, we can again rely
on the documentation. So in the previous session, we authorized the agent to access the projects
within the group. So by using the CI access within the config.yaml, so what this configuration is
going to do is all the projects which belong to the group or the subgroup are now authorized
to access the agent. And this means that all the jobs now include a kubeconfig file,
which has the context of all the agent connections. And this kubeconfig path is
also available as an environment variable within the $KUBECONFIG. So while we use the kubectl
commands, we need to choose the context, set the context and then, you know, use the context to,
you know, start deploying applications or manifests to the Kubernetes cluster.
And it also gives you an example here. So it says like, you know, how to update the,
you know, GitLab CI YAML file. Here we have a job called deploy, they are using a kubectl image
in order to, you know, get the kubectl CLI. So the first step is they are getting the git context
command using the kubectl config. So as each and every job has the kubeconfig environment variable.
So this kubectl command internally is going to make use of the GitLab agent's kubeconfig file
for getting the context. And in the next command, we can use again kubectl config use context,
and you know, set the GitLab agent context. So how do we do that? So you need to give the path
to your project and basically the project where you are trying to deploy and you need to give
the agent name. So that is going to be the context. And after you set the context, you can use the
kubectl CLI to deploy the applications using, you know, the agent's kubeconfig file. Okay,
so let's see how to do this. So I can go back to the pipeline. And let me do one thing. So what
I'll do is, I'll just copy the entire dev deploy job. And let me paste it here. So of course,
I need to make some changes. Because if you see, it's going to give me an error,
because the name should be unique. So let me make some changes here. So the first thing I
would like to change here is, let me name this as k8s stage deploy. Okay. And I also want to
use a different stage name. So I want to use stage deploy as the name. So if you see, as soon as I
change this, it's giving me an error saying that this stage does not exist. So I need to, you know,
quickly go up and define this after the dev deploy, you know, stage. Okay, so I'm just
creating another stage for the staging environment. So after I do that, so what are the other changes
which I need to do? So the first thing is, if you see here, in the dev deployment, we made use
of our own kubeconfig file in order to connect with the Kubernetes cluster and deploy. Again,
this is kind of a like, you know, security issue, because you should not be exposing
your kubeconfig files on third-party servers. So using the GitLab agent, this step can be avoided,
because now it has its own kubeconfig file. So how do we make use of the GitLab kubeconfig file
or GitLab agent's kubeconfig file? So if you remember, you need to, I mean, if you remember,
the documentation says that the kubeconfig file is part of the environment variable.
First, let me read the variable and see what it contains. Then I'm going to use the context
and then deploy the application. So let's see how to do that. So for the first step,
I'm just going to remove the first two commands, which are the export KUBECONFIG and the kubectl
version. So they will be working as it is. So here, the first step is first, I would like to
print the environment. And when I say print environment, I would like to print
the KUBECONFIG environment variable. Okay, so let me just say print env kube
config, all caps. And this is going to give me a path which contains the KUBECONFIG file. So I
want to read the file. So in order to read the file, to make things simple, I'm just going to
execute this and store the response in a variable. So let me create a variable called as
temp underscore KUBECONFIG file.
Right, so whatever path which is going to be printed using this print env command,
it's going to be stored in the temp Kubeconfig file variable. So in the next command, just to
see what we have in this Kubeconfig file, I'm going to read it out using the cat command.
And I'll just, you know, copy this name, use dollar and read it. Okay, so this is how I'm
just going to print the kubeconfig file of the agent and read it. So after reading it, I can,
you know, just use the kubeconfig get-context command to see the context details. And I would
like to, you know, use the context. So how do I use this context? So if you remember the steps,
so let me just copy this command. So you need to use kubectl config use-context,
and then you need to give the path of the project. So this is nothing but your group
name and the project name. So I'm just copying it from the URL above, I need to paste it here.
And you also need to give the agent name: the agent name. So the agent name is,
you know, K8s GitLab agent. So let me just paste it here. Okay, so that is how you make use of the
context. So once you make use of the context, you can interact, you know, with the Kubernetes
cluster. Okay. And I'm just going to use kubectl get pods just to display all the pods, you know,
which we have in the cluster. Right. So I think these are the only changes which I need to do.
So I'm just making use of the GitLab agent's kubeconfig file to connect with the cluster
and you know, to create and communicate with the cluster basically. So the rest of the steps like
exporting the Ingress IP, creating the secret within the namespace remains the same. And if
you remember, we have to associate this job with the staging environment. So let me replace the
environment with staging. If you remember, in the last session, we also created a couple of
environment variables within the CI/CD settings. And those variables are associated with the
staging environment, especially the namespace and the replicas. So whatever values which I gave here,
those will be used in the pipeline of this job because this is referring to the staging
environment. So it's going to, you know, create the secret within the staging namespace. And at
the same time, it's going to use the replicas which I defined within the staging environment
variable. So it's going to create the secret, it's going to update the manifest files and replace
the placeholder values. So I'm making use of the same manifest files, which I have at this path.
And finally, I'm just outputting, you know, all the objects from this specific namespace,
basically all the resources and getting the Ingress URL and the same URL, I am using it
in the environment URL as well. So these are the changes which I have done. And since we are doing
this, let me also do the changes for the integration testing as well. So I would like to
add even that here. So here it's going to be Kubernetes stage integration testing,
the stage is going to be stage deploy, and it requires the Kubernetes stage deploy job to be
completed before it gets triggered, because we need the Ingress URL in order to do the integration
testing. Okay, so these are the changes, you know, which I have done. So I have added two new jobs
for deploying the manifest to the staging environment as well as, you know, doing the
integration testing as well. Okay, so once you do this, I think the rest of the things can be
left as it is. So let us quickly visualize. A new stage has been added, we also have the
containerization stage. So since this is the last demo of this module four or section four,
let me uncomment all other jobs as well. Okay, so let's run all the jobs once and see how the
pipeline looks. So let me just uncomment everything. Okay, so we have the unit testing,
code coverage, Docker build, Docker test, Docker push, publishing to GitLab container registry,
dev deploy, dev integration testing, stage deploy, and stage integration testing. Okay,
so we have I think 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, we have 10 jobs defined so far. So if I want to
check this visually, so this is how the pipeline visually looks like if you run all the 10, you
know, jobs. So I guess I didn't make any mistakes. So let me quickly check this out and we'll deploy.
Okay, so I guess I missed one more keyword. So what I want to do here is, if you remember,
you know, I wanted this job to be deployed manually or promoted manually to the staging
environment. So you can also manually trigger the jobs. So if you see here, you can also configure
that a job doesn't run unless a user starts it. And this is basically called a manual job.
In order to define this manual job, you can use when is equal to manual keyword, which will,
you know, wait for a user input in order to start the job. Okay, so let us quickly configure this
for the staging environment. So this is basically used for jobs where you're deploying something to
a production environment. But I want to use this for the staging environment itself.
So if I go back to my pipeline, for the Kubernetes stage deploy, I'm just going to use
simple when condition. And for the value, I just want to use manual.
Okay, so now this job started manually to, you know, trigger it. Okay, so let's say
configured stage deploy and testing. Okay, so let me quickly check if there are no syntax errors,
visually everything looks fine. So let's go and commit this to the feature branch.
Okay, that's great. A new pipeline should be created. So let's go to the pipelines.
Yep, as you can see, a new pipeline got triggered. And this pipeline has all the four stages with 10
different jobs, it's going to take a lot of time to complete all of them. Okay, so as you can see
here, most of the jobs have been completed in the test, containerization, and the dev deploy.
But here, if you see the stage deploy jobs have not started. So let's see what is happening over
here. So I think I need to scroll to the right a bit. So if you see here, this job is currently
showing a skipped the integration job, because this depends on the Kubernetes stage deploy.
And this is not triggered, but we have a play option. And the reason is, this is a manual
action. So a user has to manually trigger this job to start it. So that is why we see a play
option defined over here. Okay, so you can also click on the job, it's going to show you the same
information saying that this job requires a manual action. And if you want, you can also pass in
some custom variables as well, which can be used by this job. Okay, so let me quickly go back to
the pipeline and trigger this as well. Let me just zoom out a bit so that you can see everything in
a single frame. So let me click on play. So once I click on play, it's going to trigger the job.
And once this job is completed, the integration job will also start. Okay, so as you can see here,
all the jobs have been successfully completed, even the stage deploy stage, you know, both the
jobs have been completed. And if you see here, I think all the 10 jobs took around six and a half
compute minutes for the total pipeline. So let us quickly go and check the Kubernetes
stage deploy logs. It has a lot of logs. So let me just go and come from the top.
So the first thing what we wanted to do here is to, you know, print the kubeconfig file.
And let me just zoom this a bit so that it's visible, right. So we wanted to print the
environment of the kubeconfig file. And we are saving this in a variable. And we are just reading
out that variable. And you can see that there is indeed a kubeconfig file. And if you see the
details, it has, you know, user called agentK and the ID of the agent. It has a token as well,
which is masked for security purposes. It has a cluster. And the cluster, if you see it is using
kas.gitlab.com slash Kubernetes proxy. So all the calls the agent is going to make it to this proxy.
And this is going to internally route the calls to the Kubernetes cluster in order to,
you know, write or read the data. Okay. And it has a context which contains both the cluster
and the user. So the GitLab agent is going to make use of this context for connecting and doing
or executing the kubectl commands. Okay. So the next command was to, you know, get the context.
So it's going to show you the name of the context, which is nothing but, you know, the group ID
slash the project name, colon name of the agent. And you can use the kubectl config use context
with the name of the context in order to, you know, start using that. Okay. So once you do that,
if I do a quick kubectl get pods, you can see that it is able to,
you know, fetch all the pods from the Kubernetes cluster. Okay. And mind you,
these are the pods before you started the, I mean, stage deployment. So you only see that
you have the development pods of the solar system application. You don't have
the staging environment resources. And the other steps have been done as it is. And you can see
that we have four pods here within the staging namespace because we gave replicas as four. So
we'll also, you know, check this out in the local terminal and the other steps we have seen them
in the previous job itself. Okay. And the dev and the stage integration testing has also passed
because it was able to get the URL from the previous job and both the URLs are working
fine as per the requirement. Okay. So that's how the applications have been deployed to the
Kubernetes cluster using the GitLab agent. If I go back to the environment, so let me refresh this
environment. So in the staging environment, you can see that we have one deployment, which we just
did six minutes ago. And in this project, this is the third deployment. And if you see
the ID is equal to three. Okay. And talking about the overview. Okay. So if you see here,
so now it has seven services earlier, it was six, and it has 20 pods. So you should be also seeing
the staging namespace service as well. And the cluster IP is also a bit different here,
maybe it's running on a different node. Okay. So let's go and check out the application.
So if I go here, it also gives me the URL, if you remember. So it's going to ask me to
accept the self-signed certificate. And the application is running within the staging
namespace. If you see the URL, it is solar-system-hyphen-staging. Right. So this is running in the
staging environment. And talking about the pods. So this application is running on four pods
because the replicas are four. So you can also quickly check that out. So earlier when we
tried to get the resources from the staging environment, we found no resources. But now
if you run the same command, you should be seeing four pods are running in this staging namespace.
Okay. So I hope you got a fair idea on how the GitLab agent works, how to configure the agent,
how to install the agent within your Kubernetes cluster, how to add custom configurations,
and how to use the context for, you know, quickly managing your Kubernetes cluster or
deploying manifest files. So that's all for now. Thank you.
