Let's go ahead and configure the code quality job within our CI pipeline.
So what is code quality?
We use code quality to analyze the source code's quality and complexity.
And this will help keep your project's code simple, readable, and easier to maintain.
And you can run code quality within your CI/CD pipeline,
which will help you avoid merging changes that would degrade your code quality.
So how does this work?
So GitLab has a couple of different features where a lot of testing like code quality,
container scanning, secret scanning, all these are available as templates or components.
So we can simply plug them within a CI/CD pipeline and make use of them.
So in this session, we'll focus on the code quality.
So code quality, it's going to make use of the open source Code Climate tool.
And it has selected plugins to analyze your source code.
And you can also make sure that your programming language is supported or not.
So you can simply check on the supported languages for maintainability.
And these are the different languages which are currently supported
by this open source Code Climate tool.
And ours is NodeJS, which falls under JavaScript.
So our source code can be scanned using this Code Quality job.
And you can also extend this by using the Code Climate's analysis plugin,
or you can also create a custom tool as well.
And it also depends on which GitLab tier we are using.
And based on the tier, you have different features enabled and disabled.
So we are currently at the free tier.
So you can configure the scanners, integrate custom scanners.
You can also generate reports in either JSON or HTML formats.
Right.
And the reports can also be viewed in the Merge Request.
Right.
So if you have a higher, you know, version of or a higher GitLab tier,
you can also find the details in the Pipeline.
And also the merge request changes as well.
Okay.
So how do the merge request changes look?
I mean, if you scroll on the documentation, it displays you a few examples,
like what would be the details available in the Merge Request.
And it's going to also show you at each line,
what are the findings of this, you know, code coverage or the code quality job.
Okay.
And you may get a question like, how do I enable this code quality?
And as I mentioned earlier, it can be enabled in two ways.
Either you can use a template or you can also make use of a CI/CD component.
So I would like to make use of a component in this session.
So what are CI/CD components?
In GitLab, components are reusable building blocks
that let you break down your pipelines into smaller, more manageable pieces.
And you can create your own components for your projects.
And you can, you know, list them out so that
everyone within your team can make use of these reusable components.
Or you can also make use of components which are already listed in the CI/CD catalog.
So the CI/CD catalog is like a list of projects,
which are published using the CI/CD components,
and you can use them to extend your own CI/CD workflow.
Okay.
And mind you, the CI/CD catalog and the CI/CD components,
both are in currently beta status.
So there might be a few changes in the future,
but we'll explore what we have currently.
So how do we explore the CI/CD catalog?
How do we know what are the projects that are available for reusing in our workflow?
So if I go back to my pipeline,
so this is a pipeline which we are working on.
We have defined various jobs and various hidden jobs.
So here, if you see, I have an option to browse templates
and also to browse the CI/CD catalog.
So this is within the pipeline editor.
So if I want to see what I have in the CI/CD catalog, let's click on it.
And as of now, we have around 99 CI/CD components available,
which can be used in our projects.
If you scroll down, you see a lot of components related to PHP,
NodeJS, SAST, Terraform, and various other components are available.
So I am interested in code quality.
So I can simply search for code quality.
So we have a code quality component.
So let me just go ahead and see what this is all about.
So this is version 1.0.
You can also go to the project and see the source code.
If you just click on this, I mean, hyperlink,
and it also explains to you like what is this code quality,
which open source tool it uses, and how to use this as well.
So if you see, you need to make use of the
includes keyword in order to use the component.
So you can simply use the string.
So this is hosted in GitLab.com slash GitLab components.
So we have various components in GitLab,
and it will be about the code quality.
And you also need to give the version.
So the version is 1.0, as you can see here.
And if you want, you can also give various variables
and, you know, configure different settings for the job as well.
So let's go to the project and see
what are the scripts that are used.
So before using any third-party script or a job or a component,
it's always ideal to go through the source code
and see how it is doing the testing and all, right?
So again, this is a separate project.
It has its own .gitlab-ci.yml.
So let me just go to the GitLab CI.yaml.
So again, it has support for different languages.
So ours is NodeJS, which is available.
It also has various jobs.
So I will not go in-depth about this.
So let me go back.
Let me also show you the template, which is used here.
And again, the code climate.yaml file is used for,
you know, specifying the specifications of the open source tool.
You can also modify this
if you want to have a different set of rules and specifications.
So let's go to template.
So you have this code quality.yaml file.
So this is the YAML file, which is used for,
you know, running the code quality against your source code.
Okay.
So the same thing, we will try to refer to this in our pipeline
and reuse the same configuration.
Okay.
So how do we do that?
So I need to include this component.
So let me just copy the template includes component.
Go to my pipeline.
So in my pipeline, as of now, I have all the jobs enabled,
but I don't want to use all the jobs.
So what I would like to do is,
let me comment out all the jobs
because I'm only testing the components
and I only want to show you how the code quality works.
So let me just comment out everything.
I just want a single unit testing job and nothing else.
Okay.
So if you see visualize,
I only have the Unit Testing job in the Test stage.
Even in full config, I should be only seeing around 90 lines,
not more than 90 lines.
Okay.
So that is the only thing, you know, I have currently.
So now let us go ahead and include the component.
So I would include this after the stages.
So it's going to give you an error message in the top.
It's saying that, you know, it cannot find this path.
So you need to give the version.
So the version is 1.0.
That's it.
As soon as you give the version,
if you see the pipeline syntax is correct, there are no errors.
So let's try to visualize and see what happened to our pipeline.
When you click on visualize,
you can see there is a new code and the name,
I'm a new job and the name of the job is code_quality.
So since we are including the component,
the job is included automatically.
So how do you see the configuration of this job?
You can click on full config,
and it's going to append the Code Quality template,
which we just saw in the repository, right?
The entire template will be added.
And after that, you have your workflow,
your own workflow, which has the unit testing job.
So if you go through this code quality job,
you can see that, you know, by default,
it is hardcoded to run in the test stage.
It is using some Docker to run this job.
And by default, even if there's any error in this code quality,
it is, you know, going to allow it.
So the allow failure is true.
So it won't affect the pipeline.
It will just give you a warning if it failed
and continue processing the next jobs.
And it's also making use of some variables, some scripts.
And finally, it's also going to give you the output in the JSON format.
So this also supports giving you the output in HTML format.
So how do you get the HTML format?
How do you run this in a, you know, different stage?
How do you, you know, make changes to existing,
you know, components or to existing scripts?
So to do changes, you can define a job with the same name
and, you know, add different settings.
So what I want to do here is,
I would like to run this in a different stage.
And I would like to also, you know, get the report in HTML format.
So how do I do that?
So for doing that, I would like to go to edit.
So here you can define the job anywhere, right?
So let me just define a job above the Unit Testing.
So the name of the job should be the same thing.
So I'm going to use port quality and talking about the stage.
So I would like to associate this with a stage called as pre.
So what is this dot pre?
So in the stages, I did not define anything with dot pre.
So what is this .pre?
So if I go to full config, and if I scroll down,
so if you see, by default, even if you don't mention it,
there are two stages added .pre and .post.
So what are these?
So these are special predefined stages that offer a convenient way
to run specific jobs at the beginning or end of your entire pipeline,
regardless of other defined stages.
The dot pre stage runs before any other defined stages in your pipeline.
And it is ideal for tasks like setting up the environment,
installing dependencies.
And also, if you want to run some initial security checks,
like code linting, security scanning, the pre stage is ideal for it.
Apart from that, you also have a predefined dot post stage.
And this stage runs after all other defined stages are executed.
And it's going to execute regardless of their success or failure.
And this stage is useful for tasks like cleaning up the resources
or sending notifications using email alerts or Slack messages.
So I'm just making use of this predefined dot pre job.
Okay, so I'm just going to use the same.
And you can see that there are no syntax errors.
Okay, even if you don't define it, it's going to use it.
And apart from that, I would like to change the output of the code quality
from the default JSON report.
If you say it's giving me a JSON report, I want the report in HTML format.
So how do I do that?
So again, you can refer to the documentation.
And here it has an option where you can only get the output in HTML format.
So this is within the code quality documentation.
So let me just copy all this thing.
So we need to add a variable.
We need to add report format equal to HTML and the artifact path as well
so that I can store it.
And by default, the artifacts will be valid only for one week,
not more than one week.
Okay, you can also change it, but I'll just go with the default thing.
So let me go to edit.
And here, let me add the variables HTML report.
And at the same time, I don't want any JSON report.
So what I can do is I can do reports, I can say code quality,
and I'll just use an empty array to, you know, remove the JSON report.
So these are the manual changes which I have done.
You can do any other changes as well.
So now, if I go to the full configuration,
you should see that it's going to run in the pre stage.
That's great.
And if I scroll down, it is going to, you know, give me the HTML report.
Okay, so that is the other change which I have done.
And talking about variables, I've also added a variable
which is going to give me the report in the HTML format.
Right, so you can modify bits and pieces as required
and use the predefined jobs.
Okay, so that's the only change which I wanted to do.
So I have two stages and two jobs.
So let's go ahead and commit them.
So this component name is Code Quality.
Okay, so let me just quickly commit the changes to the feature branch.
That's great.
So a new pipeline should be triggered.
Let's go to the pipelines.
Yes, a new pipeline is triggered.
It has two jobs.
Before running the Unit Testing job,
it's going to run all the jobs which are defined under the .pre stage.
So it's going to run the code quality,
and then it's going to run the unit testing.
So ideally speaking, since all the pre jobs are the security jobs,
which we will be referencing in the future,
most of them, you know, they are going to succeed the job even if it fails.
So you can, you know, run the other stages in parallel if required,
but it's not recommended.
Okay, so anyhow, I'll be just pausing the video till the pipeline gets completed.
Let's go ahead and see what has been done in the code quality job.
So let's go here.
So a lot of things have been done.
So let me try to minimize all of the steps.
Okay, so it's going to make use of, you know, the Docker Executor.
It's going to, you know, run the service and the Docker image
as mentioned in the Code Quality job.
Let me go to the job script.
It's going to run a couple of Docker commands,
and it's also, you know, saying null out of range.
So I think it won't show you much of the reports in the standard output,
but it should be, you know, uploading the artifact.
So if you see, it uploaded an HTML artifact.
So let's go ahead and check out like what is the content
or what are the reports that are generated.
So at the right side, you can see that you have the job artifacts.
You can download them for your local machine,
or you can also browse them.
So let me click on browse.
It's going to redirect you to the HTML page for this job
running in this pipeline for this commit in this branch,
and it was triggered by this user.
So let's go to the HTML output.
Yes, I would like to be redirected.
So this is the HTML output of the code quality report.
So it has various categories, and it is a very large HTML report.
So none of this might make sense if you read the JSON file.
So that's the reason I used the HTML format.
But if you want to, you know, check this within the Merge Request, you know, UI,
then you need to use the JSON report as well.
But let's see what categories we have.
So let me just go with bug risk.
So it's saying that at this line, you know, there is an unexpected alert, right?
So it's just highlighting this.
If you click on details, it's also going to give you a description,
like why is it disallowed to use alerts?
How the rules are, I mean, the details about the rules and,
you know, some additional documentation.
And this is found by engine, right?
So there are various engines.
So this is found by the ESLint engine.
If you want to know more about it, you can click on it.
It's going to take you to the Code Climate documentation and,
you know, explain what this is.
So you have, you know, duplication, ESLint,
and the structure engines used, you know, for this report.
And it's also talking about some unexpected errors to be handled.
So this is basically, you know, everything bad
or degraded with respect to your, you know, source code.
Okay.
So it's going to give you the exception and also the details,
like how you can rectify it.
And let me go to complexity.
So I have one issue in the complexity.
It's saying that a function should not exceed more than 25 lines,
whereas I exceeded it by three lines.
So I have 28 lines.
So again, this is like, you know, you need to consider refactoring.
Okay.
That's great.
Talking about duplication.
Yes, I have duplicated a lot of code within the test cases.
So it's saying that, you know, it found similar,
you know, blocks of code in seven locations.
So it gives you the details like where else in other instances,
it found the details.
And, you know, it talks about why you should not duplicate code,
why you should follow the DRY principle,
like don't repeat yourself and a few other details.
And the last thing is style.
I think within the style, there is a parsing error, unexpected token.
So again, I mean, I'm not sure what this is,
because I'm not a NodeJS developer.
Right.
So, I mean, this is how the code quality engine or the job
is going to help you to analyze your source code
and, you know, give you the issues either in HTML or in a JSON format.
And moreover, if you have a higher tier like premium or ultimate,
it has additional features like you can do some findings in the pipeline,
summary in the project quality view,
and you can also do some findings in the Merge Request change view as well.
Right.
So that's how the Code Quality job works.
So let me go back to the Pipeline.
I guess the pipeline is also successfully completed
because both the jobs are done.
So that's all for now.
Thank you.
