Let's see how to integrate GitLab with your Slack workspace.
So, GitLab has various capabilities which can integrate with different third-party products,
and one of them is the Slack workspace.
So, it has a GitLab for Slack app, which can be used for sending the notifications
or also running your GitLab CI/CD jobs using some commands in your Slack workspace.
So, how do we integrate this?
Again, there is complete documentation available here, but I'll be showing you a quick demo.
So, for this, you need to have a Slack workspace.
I'm using a free workspace over here, a trial version, and I have various channels.
So, let me create a new channel for this demo.
So, let me name this channel as GitLab Notifications.
So, let me also make this a private channel so that only specific people can check this out.
And you can skip adding people.
So, once the channel is created, you need to also integrate your Slack workspace with GitLab.
So, you can quickly add that integration.
So, once it is added, you can invite GitLab.
So, there is a GitLab application available.
So, you can simply add the right GitLab to invite.
So, once it's invited, GitLab can send notifications over here, the app.
But how do you send notifications to this specific channel?
So, you can do that on a per project basis.
So, you need to go back to your project.
Let me go to settings.
And within the project settings, you have integrations.
Let me open this in a new tab.
I mean, there are two types of Slack integrations.
One is the Slack notification integration.
And the other one is the Slack, you know, GitLab for Slack app.
So, the Slack notification integration is being deprecated and it's not recommended to use it.
So, we will be making use of the GitLab for Slack app.
Okay.
So, let me go down.
So, you see that we have this GitLab for Slack app.
So, let's go ahead and configure it.
So, here, let's install GitLab for the Slack application.
So, it's going to redirect you to the Slack workspace.
Since I'm already logged in, it's just asking me to allow.
So, it's going to, you know, perform some actions in the workspace and also can, you know, send messages at the right GitLab.
So, let me allow this.
Right.
So, now this GitLab for Slack app is active and it was successfully installed.
You can see the, you know, team name is my workspace name, which is mcd-level2.
And it's going to make use of this project alias, which is nothing but my group name followed by the project name and when it was created.
You can also edit the project alias, but I'll just go with the default alias for the time being.
And you can also mention what the triggers are, like what notifications should be sent.
And you have a couple of options over here.
I'll just select one option.
So, whenever a push is made to the repository, I would like to trigger a notification.
So, you need to give the channel name to which channel do you want to send the notification to.
I can use the GitLab notification, the channel which I just created.
And you can also have some notification settings where you can configure when to, you know, send the notification.
So, the default option is to notify only for broken pipelines, but I'll, you know, deselect it.
So, it's going to, you know, send notifications for the successful pipelines as well.
And you can also select for which branches it has to be sent.
And the default setting is only for the default branch.
I'll just select all branches for the time being.
And you can test the settings.
It should be connection successful.
And you can say save changes.
Okay. So, these are the changes which I made.
I just, you know, added an integration.
So, you should not be seeing anything over here.
Okay. So, now let's commit something.
Okay. So, back in my pipeline editor, I committed the entire code.
As you can see, the entire code is committed.
I only have the unit testing job active along with the NodeJS, you know, hidden job environment, you know, active.
So, if you see visualize, I only have one job active.
So, all other jobs are, you know, commented out for the time being.
So, let me quickly commit this with the commit message saying testing Slack notifications to the feature branch.
Okay. So, it is committed.
A new pipeline should also be triggered.
But we are not interested in the pipeline.
So, we are currently interested in the Slack notifications.
So, if you go back to your Slack workspace, you should see a new notification appear.
So, it's going to give you the author who pushed the changes.
It's going to mention the branch to which the changes were pushed.
And it's also going to show you in which group, in which project, you know, the changes were pushed to.
It's also going to show you the, you know, the commit ID, the commit message, and the author who basically pushed.
Okay. So, this is how the notification will be automatically sent to your Slack workspace.
Okay. And talking about the pipeline.
So, the pipeline will be running.
So, let me see if the pipeline was successfully completed.
So, if I go back to the pipelines, the pipeline is also completed successfully.
So, in the next session, we'll still make use of this Slack workspace.
But we will trigger this job using the Slack commands.
Okay. So, that's all for now. Thank you.
