In the previous sessions, we installed a project-level runner, which can only be
used by that specific project to run the jobs. So in this session, we're going to
create a group-level runner, which can be used by all the projects which are, you
know, in that same group. And we are also going to, you know, make use of the
Docker executor instead of the default shell option. So for this demo, I'm going
to go back to my original solar system project, which is there in the, you know,
demos group. And to install a group-level runner, so you can go to the group where
you want to install it. And if you see, I have around five different projects
within the demos group. And if I install a runner at the group level, all these
five projects will be able to run their jobs in this group-level runner. So how
do I create it? So on the left side, if you see there's a build option, you can
click on runner. And in this runner, again, it's going to give you, you know,
it's going to show you, you know, the runners available within this group. So
we have one project-level runner, and we have zero group-level runners. So let's
create a new group-level, you know, runner. Again, I'll go with the Linux option, but
the tags will be different. So I'm going to make use of Docker executor. So I'm
going to mention Docker. And then I'm going to, you know, make use of AWS. Okay,
so I'm going to run something related to AWS. So I'm going to use AWS as well. And
finally, I'm, you know, installing this on a Linux machine. So I'm just going to
mention Linux. Okay. And I'll just say, Docker executor with AWS, you know, AWS.
That's it. Okay. And for timeout, I'll just again go with the 10 minutes default
timeout. Okay. So let's go ahead. So let me just create this runner. Okay, again, I
have this registration, I don't need to install the runner again, because I've
already, you know, installed the runner. So I'm using the same virtual machine,
which I've used for the NodeJS runner, the shell-based executor. So let me
install the new runner. So multiple runners can be installed on the same
machine. So I'm going to name this instead of the default IAC server, I'm
just going to, you know, name this as AWS Docker runner. And for executor, I'm
going to make use of Docker. And here, since we're using Docker executor, it's
going to ask what is the default Docker image you want to use. So if you don't
mention any job level image, field or keyword, it's going to use the default
image which you provide here. So just for the time being, I'm going to go with
the default Ruby, but you can choose any image which you want to use.
Okay, so let me quickly create this. So the runner is successfully registered.
And the same thing can also be viewed, you know, in the config file. So let me close the
config file. So let's go to GitLab runners, config to your admin. And here
you should see that I have two runners. Okay, so let me minimize them. So one is
the NodeJS runner, which is using the Shell Executor. And now you have another
runner, which is of name AWS Docker runner. And the executor is of type
Docker. And apart from that, it also adds some configuration related to the, you
know, Docker configuration. So it's going to show you what is the default image
used? Is it going to use a privileged mode? No, it is false. And it's going to
use volumes, right? So now that you're using Docker containers, in order to
persist the caches, it's going to make use of volumes. And of course, you can
have various other configurations, as you know, mentioned in the advanced
configuration documentation. Okay, so this is how we just, you know, created a
new runner. You can also, you know, check this out. If I go back to the runners
page, okay, so this runner never contacted. So you can quickly contact this as well.
So I can simply say, okay, so let me go here. It is ideal. So let me try to, okay,
so I guess it never contacted the instance, I guess I have to run the, so let me just go to
GitLab Runner. And there is an option where I can just say, I can just use GitLab Runner list. So
I should be seeing, you know, both the configurations, the NodeJS runner and the
AWS runner. So let me quickly restart. So there is the GitLab Runner restart command. So it should
restart. So once restarted, I guess, it should be, you know, connecting with this runner as well.
Yeah. So if you see, as soon as I restarted it, even this group level runner is online,
and this can be, you know, used by all the projects within the demo group. So within
the demo group, if I go to, let us say, solar system project, and if I go to CI/CD,
there is a runners option. And here, okay, it is not being displayed here. But this should,
you know, make use of that group level runner as well. So let me disable this shared runners.
So that should be fine. Okay, so the group runner is not being displayed here. But you
know, the job should be able to pick it up after you give the tags. So we'll check it
out in the next session. Thank you.
