Let's go ahead and configure Auto DevOps. So, I have a repository over here which
holds the same Solar System project or the Node.js based application source code,
but how does this differ from the previously used Solar System application
project? So, so far whatever we have done, you know, we covered various aspects of
GitLab CI/CD through manual configurations and we used Dockerfiles,
Kubernetes manifest files and designed, you know, multi-stage pipelines using the
GitLab CI YAML file. While this repository holds the same Node.js source
code for the Solar System application, it is missing the crucial components like
the Dockerfile, Kubernetes manifest and the GitLab config file as well. So, we
will be automating the entire pipeline for this project, you know, using GitLab
Auto DevOps and its powerful automation capabilities. Okay, to start off this, I
would like to quickly clone this or create a new project based on, you know,
this specific, you know, repo. So, let me copy the endpoint. So, if I click on plus
new project, let's import this using the URL.git and I would like to import
this to my demos group and I would like to name this as solar system auto
DevOps. Okay, so that would be the name of the project and the slug is solar-
system-auto DevOps and I'm going to make this public visibility and create
the, you know, new project. So, let's give it a second. So, it imported the project.
Now, if you see this is within my demos group and the name of the project is
solar system Auto DevOps and as I mentioned earlier, it does not have the
Dockerfile, the Kubernetes manifest files or even the GitLab CI YAML file is
also not there. So, how do we enable Auto DevOps? How do we configure it and how to
use it? And we will be relying on the documentation. So, you have a very clean
documentation on Auto DevOps and all its features. So, I would highly recommend you
to go through, you know, all the, you know, available documentation in order to
understand this and how to use this, you know, for your own applications. Okay.
So, I mean, it talks about the same stuff which I discussed in the PPT slide.
It talks about what are the different stages you have and if you want to know
more about each stage, you can go to the stages documentation. It covers or talks
about, you know, each job or each stage individually and the different options
and features, you know, they have and to start off with, you need to know the
requirements. So, if you go to the requirements tab, you know, it's going to
help you to set up the project in order to, you know, start using the Auto DevOps
and the Auto DevOps can be used for two things. You can use this for building
your application, testing your apps, and deploying to a Kubernetes cluster. And
for the moment, if you don't have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip the
deployment part and the Auto DevOps is simply going to build and test your
applications. And later on, you can configure the deployment strategy as
well. Right. So, you know, you can do both of them. So, to prepare for the deployment,
these are the steps which you need to follow. So, again, you have three
deployment strategies as we discussed in the previous session. You can choose
either of them and we will be covering all the three strategies in the upcoming,
you know, seven to eight, you know, demos. Okay. And, you know, you can enable Auto
DevOps by going to the settings CI/CD and this can be enabled at three
different locations, the project level, the group level, and also at the instance
level as well. So, we will be doing this at the project level. And once you do
that, if you also want to deploy your application to Kubernetes, you need to
also make use of a Kubernetes Ingress URL and the domain has to be, you
know, provided as a variable so that it can be used for, you know, testing the
application and, you know, for other capabilities as well. Okay. And if you
are using Kubernetes, it should be a version which is compatible with GitLab.
So, any version which is above 1.12 is compatible and it also talks about other
options as well. Okay. And then, if you want to, you know, use a specific, you
know, Kubernetes version like GKE, EKS, right. So, it has its own documentation
again where it talks about, you know, all the steps of configuring and setting up
the, you know, GKE cluster and how to, you know, configure the Auto DevOps stuff as
well. So, the first thing is, we would like to also deploy the application using
Auto DevOps. So, the first thing which you need to do is, you need to, you know,
configure the Kubernetes cluster. And if you remember, you can configure the
Kubernetes cluster by, you know, enabling this Kubernetes cluster under the
operate option in the project. So, let's go and first create an agent. So, if you
remember, we have to create an agent. So, let's go ahead, create an agent and okay
let me go back. So, let me just connect to a cluster. So, I don't have an agent. So,
let us quickly create the agent as we saw this in the earlier sessions. So, let
me name the agent as Auto DevOps agent. So, I would like to create this one. So,
it's going to click on register. So, a new agent has been created. So, let me copy
this and I will be, you know, installing this agent within my Kubernetes cluster.
So, I have my own Kubernetes cluster running. Okay. So, let me quickly copy,
paste and run these helm commands. So, it should, you know, create this new agent
and install it. So, it already installed it. So, if I do kubectl get namespaces, I
should see I have another agent created just five seconds ago. And earlier, we
made use of the K8sgpt GitLab agent which was created like six days ago. Right. So,
even that agent will also be running side-by-side. So, now our new agent is
also up and running. Okay. So, if you try to check the pods of this new agent,
GitLab agent Auto DevOps get pods. So, this will be up and running. Okay. So,
you can quickly verify this by going back to the GitLab instance. You can simply refresh this.
And you can see the agent is connected to your Kubernetes cluster. And the next thing which
we have to do is you need to change the default configuration. Right. So, you need to use,
you know, some custom configurations which can be defined using the config.yaml file.
So, let's go ahead and create this config.yaml file. So, let me go to my repository. So,
I would like to create a new file. And let me just copy this and paste it. So,
this will be under .gitlab folder slash agents. I need to give the name of the agent here. So,
the name of the agent is Auto DevOps agent. Right. So, that is the name which I have given
slash config.yaml. So, that would be, you know, the path of this config.yaml. And let me quickly
copy paste the configuration. So, we have used the same configurations in one of our earlier
sessions. So, let me quickly paste this. Allow. Right. So, I'm just enabling user access and CI
access. And for both of them, the project ID would be, you know, demos group slash
solar system Auto DevOps. So, I think I have to just make a small change here, Auto DevOps.
Okay. So, that would be the project IDs. So, let me quickly,
agent K config.yaml. Okay. So, let me quickly make the changes to the main branch.
Okay. So, we have the agent configuration available here.
So, if I go back to operate on Kubernetes clusters, you can see that the agent is now
making use of the, you know, custom config file. So, once this is done, let's go ahead and create
a couple of environment variables. So, we would like to deploy our applications to a couple of
environments. Let's say, you know, these are the staging and the production environments.
So, let's go set up the environments. So, staging. So, let me first create the staging environment.
I would like to select the agent, which I just created. And for this agent, I would like to,
you know, read, you know, all the namespaces. Okay. I don't want to select a specific one.
So, let me just click on save. Okay. So, similarly, I would also like to create.
Okay. So, there are no deployments for this yet. But, you know, you can see that there are
currently 22 pods running on my Kubernetes cluster. So, you know, it was able to connect
to the cluster using the Kubernetes, you know, KAS agent and able to fetch the information.
And there are around 7 services running. Okay. So, that's about the staging environment. So,
let's create another environment and name this as production. And again, I would like to select the
same, you know, Auto DevOps agent. But this time, I don't have a production namespace over here.
So, you can also create the namespace and it should be displayed here. So, let me,
you know, just go back to my CLI and I would like to create a namespace production. Okay. So,
a new namespace is created in the Kubernetes cluster. So, I would like to monitor,
you know, this namespace. So, I think I have to refresh this.
So, let me go back and create this again.
So, even if you don't create the namespace, the Auto DevOps is going to automatically create one
for you, but I'm just defining this. So, yeah, now it should be able to fetch the production
namespace as well because we just created it. And let me save this. And currently in production,
you have nothing because we just created the namespace. It does not have any pods or services.
So, you should see ports and services as zero. Okay. So, we created the namespaces.
So, what is the next step? So, the next step is, ideally speaking, you need to configure
the Kubernetes Ingress base domain. Okay. So, it's basically the load balancer IP address
of the, you know, Ingress controller. So, this should be created as a variable. Okay.
So, how do I get this value? So, this value, I can get this from my Kubernetes cluster.
So, if I clear this, if I go to kubectl -n ingress nginx get service. So, I have this ingress nginx
controller, the IP address, you know, this is the IP address 139.84.208.48. So, this is going to be
the IP address and followed by I'm going to make use of the NIP service. Okay. So, nip.io,
provides a wildcard DNS entry. Okay. So, how do I define this? So, this has to be defined,
you know, in the variable section, if you say settings CI/CD expand variables. Okay. So,
if I go back to my project, I can go to settings CI/CD variables, I can go to variables. So,
currently this is empty, there are no variables. Let's create one. This is going to be for all the
environments. So, I'm not going to mask anything. So, the key is kube ingress base domain. What
about the value? So, the value is going to be the IP address followed by .nip.io. Okay. So,
let's add this variable. So, a new variable has been added here. So, apart from the ingress base
domain, you can also add some optional variables like the kube namespace. So, this is used for,
you know, deploying your applications to this specific namespace. Okay. You can also associate,
you know, this variable with an environment as well. So, let me copy this. If I go back.
So, I would like to create another variable. I want to associate this with the production
environment. Let me give the keys kube_namespace and the value is production. So, now,
whenever there is a deployment happening within the production environment, it's going to deploy
the, you know, manifests or the application to the production namespace. Okay. So, the same thing,
I would like to define this for the staging environment as well. So, the key would be the
same, but the value is going to be the staging, you know, namespace. Okay. And not only namespaces,
you can also define the, you know, replicas as well. So, you can say something like production
replicas or staging replicas. And you can also define the context also. So, let me first go back.
So, here, the third point is you need to have a kube context, right? So, this should basically,
you know, point to the project or the agent which is running the project and the agent name. So,
let's define this also, because it is required, you know, for the Kubernetes cluster or for the
job in order to connect with your cluster and, you know, interact or deploy the manifest files.
Right. So, let's define this kube context. Again, it is a variable. And this is going to be for,
you know, all the environments. So, I'm not going to use any specific thing.
And what about the value? So, here, the value is going to be
the name of the group, followed by the name of the project. Right. And colon, it should be the
name of the agent. So, the name of the agent, let me quickly check the name of the agent.
So, if I go to Kubernetes clusters in a different tab, okay, it is autodevops-agent. So,
let me quickly copy this. Right. So, this is going to be the kube context. So, the group name
followed by the project name, colon, the name of the agent. Okay. So, let me add this variable.
So, one last thing which I want to add in the variables is the replicas. How many replicas
you want to, you know, associate with the production namespace. So, there is a set of
variables which you can use. So, if you go to customize under the Auto DevOps documentation,
you have the CI/CD variables. So, these are the variables which can be, you know, customized
during the Auto DevOps, you know, pipeline build. There are like tens and hundreds of variables
available. So, you can simply search for replicas. So, there are different types of replicas,
canary production replicas, canary replicas. And if you scroll down, we have production replicas
and also the replicas as well. So, I would like to use the production replicas variable,
which is the number of replicas to deploy in the production environment. And this takes precedence
over the replicas and defaults to one by default. Right. So, for zero downtime,
it is always recommended to use, you know, two or a greater value. So, let us quickly define this.
So, if I go back to my CI/CD variables, I can add. So, again, you do not need to select any specific
environment because in the variable itself, you are saying these are the production replicas.
I am just going to use a value 10, because I would like to have 10 pods of the application
running in the production instance. So, it could be for high availability and for higher throughput
also, maybe. Right. So, there is no need for defining an environment for this variable,
because if you see the description, this is the number of replicas to deploy in the production
environment. So, this variable by default, it is mapped to the production environment.
Okay. So, that is the variables which need to be added in the configuration. So, we have like
five variables added. So, what is the next step? How do we enable Auto DevOps after you add all
the steps? So, again, you can go back to, you know, your CI/CD and you have this option Auto
DevOps. So, let us try to expand this. So, it defaults to Auto DevOps pipeline,
the Auto DevOps pipeline runs if no alternatives. Okay. Yeah. So, let us click on default and,
you know, it is going to give you the options where you can select the deployment strategy.
Right. So, we do have a Kubernetes cluster and we have also added the domain. So,
there is no need for any other configurations over here. So, here, which strategy do we start with?
So, we will start with the first one, which is continuous deployment to production. If you want
to know more about this, so you can click on this, it is going to take you to a different documentation
page, which talks about what is auto deploy and what happens here. But before that, if you want
to know what this strategy is, if you come to the requirements page, you have some brief description
about each deployment strategy. So, this continuous deployment to production, basically,
it is going to enable the auto deploy, you know, stage. Before that, it is also going to do a round
of, you know, building the application, testing the application and then deploy this to the
production, you know, namespace or environment directly. Okay. So, let us, you know, start with
the first strategy and then we will also explore the remaining two. Okay. So, let us click on this
and click on save. So, as soon as you click on save, a new pipeline will be triggered. As you
can see the message here, a new pipeline gets triggered. So, if I go to build and pipelines,
you see that a new pipeline is already running. But the thing is, I want to disable this. So,
let me just stop this pipeline. I do not want to run this pipeline as of now.
So, ideally speaking, you know, you should not run any new changes or pipelines directly on the
main branch, if you say this is running on the main branch. So, before you deploy it on the main
branch or before you deploy to production, it is always recommended to, you know, test these new
features on the feature branches. Right. So, that is the reason I just cancelled the pipeline,
which got auto triggered. So, in the next session, we are going to, you know, create a new feature
branch, we are going to create a merge request and see how the pipeline is going to change or,
you know, how the pipeline is going to be, you know, having, you know, different jobs.
But as you can see here, by default, if it gets triggered in the main branch, it has, you know,
four stages, build, test, production and performance. Each stage has, you know, different
jobs, whereas the test stage has, you know, multiple jobs. Okay. So, we will talk about
each of these jobs when, you know, they get executed in the next session.
So, that is all for now. Thank you.
