Okay, so let's go ahead, make some changes, create a new feature branch and raise a merge request
to see how the Auto DevOps works. So in the previous session, when we enabled the Auto
DevOps feature, it created a pipeline on the main branch. And in the main branch,
you know, it was trying to, you know, run these four stages, which are build,
test, production and performance. So now let's see what happens when you, you know,
trigger a pipeline for a feature branch or for a merge request. Okay, so let me close this.
So back in my repository, I will go to my app.js, which contains my business logic.
Let me quickly edit this file. I'm just going to uncomment this console.log at line number 23
within the mongoose.connect, you know, what is a function. So let me just say
feature slash, I'll just use Auto DevOps. Okay, so I'm going to create a feature branch.
And I also want to start a new Merge Request as well. So as soon as I commit this,
a new pipeline should be triggered. So if I go to build pipelines, a pipeline should be triggered,
but I'll still cancel this pipeline as well. Okay. And by just visually looking at here,
you can see that there is one additional stage within the pipeline. But we'll see,
we'll see like what is the additional stage and why it got triggered in the feature branch. Okay.
But now, I would like to create a Merge Request and then see the Pipeline. Okay. So let me just
say updated NodeJS, app.js. Okay. I'll just go with the same thing for testing
Auto DevOps. Okay. I'll just copy the same description. And this is from the feature
branch to the main branch. And yeah, let me just assign this to myself.
Reviewer is also myself. And then let me just create the Merge Request.
As soon as the Merge Request is created, so the previous pipeline was canceled. So it will,
I think it will remain in the canceled state itself. Okay. So let me rerun this pipeline,
re-try all the failed or the canceled jobs. Okay. So let me just run this again.
This is creating a new pipeline. Yes. If you see here, a new pipeline is triggered again.
So let me go back. So in the same one, it's going to restart the pipeline.
So in the same one, it's going to restart the same thing again. So as you can see here,
in the feature branch, as you can see, this is related to the feature branch. It has a build
stage, test stage. But here we have, you know, an additional stage, it's called a review stage.
And then we have the performance and cleanup. So these are something new, the review and the
cleanup. So earlier we had the production stage. Okay. So we'll talk about the review stage and
what is cleanup when we come to that specific stage. But for the time being, let us focus on
the build and the test. So the Auto DevOps, it's first going to build a Docker image, right? So
that is going to be happening in the build stage. And then parallelly, it's also going to run the
test stage where we have, you know, multiple, you know, test jobs. So these are like Code Quality,
Container Scanning, NodeJS scan, Secret Detection, Semgrep, and test. So if you see the
first five jobs are the template jobs, which we have already used, you know, manually within our
earlier sessions. But now even this, you know, jobs are automatically added. And these are
automatically, you know, tested by the Auto DevOps. And currently, the test job is failing.
So we'll see why this got failed. And this is the only job which is going to run based on the,
you know, test cases, you know, which are there in your repository. Okay, so let me
refresh this pipeline. Okay, the remaining jobs are still running. But I'll just pause the video
till all the jobs get completed. And then I'll, you know, talk about each of them, you know,
by checking out the logs. Okay, so as you can see here, some of the jobs have been completed. So
first, let's, you know, start with the build job. So in order to understand the build job,
you need to talk about the stages of Auto DevOps. And the first one is Auto Build.
So this auto build is going to create a build of the application using an existing Dockerfile.
Or if you don't have a Dockerfile defined in the project, it's going to make use of the
Heroku buildpacks. And since we don't have a Dockerfile available within the project,
it's going to use the cloud native buildpacks. Right. So these cloud native buildpacks are going
to detect the programming language and they're going to build the application into a Docker
image. Okay. And again, it makes use of the pack commands and the default builder. So if you're
aware of Heroku and the cloud native buildpacks, you should be able to, you know, correlate the
stuff about this. Okay, so let's go ahead and check the logs of the build job. So if I go to
the build job, you should be seeing there are around 400 logs. So let me quickly scroll up.
Let me minimize all of them to check them out. Okay, so it is making use of the shared runners,
and it is making use of a Docker machine. In the Docker machine, again, it's making use of
some services like the Docker, you know, Docker in Docker, and talking about the job script. Okay.
So the first thing which it's trying to do is, you know, it is, you know, logging into the GitLab
container registry using the CI credentials. And it's also logging into the GitLab dependency proxy
with the CI credentials. So this is happening automatically. And then it is, you know,
downloading the, you know, cloud-native buildpacks, you know, using the Docker pull command.
So it is pulling from Heroku slash buildpacks of version 20. So it's going to build the, or,
you know, pull and run the buildpack. So if you scroll down, you know, it has a lot of steps
within that. And once it is done, it's going to, you know, start analyzing and detecting.
So it's going to, you know, detect the programming language which is being used. And I guess,
if you see the detector started over here, and I think it found out that, you know, the application
is based on NodeJS. Okay. And if you see here, it is using the Heroku NodeJS engine buildpack
for building it. Okay, so it detected the programming language. And then it's going to,
you know, also install NodeJS of a specific version 20.11. And it's going to, you know,
install the dependencies using the npm command. And then it's going to run if there are any build
scripts, and it's going to use the default npm start command. So once it identifies, detects,
and you know, sets this up, the next step is it's going to start, you know, creating the Docker
image. As you can see here, you know, it's creating the Docker build image, it has various steps.
And if I scroll down, the Docker image is created. Once the image is created,
it's going to push the Docker image to the GitLab CI repository. So here it's getting
deployed to the GitLab registry, the name is going to be the group name followed by the project name,
followed by the branch, and it's going to use the SHA of the commit as the tag.
So if you scroll down, so that is how you know, it's going to be pushed. So you can also,
you know, check this out. If you go to deploy, there is this container registry.
If I go here, if you see, you know, I have this pushed, okay, so these two images were pushed,
you know, just like four minutes ago. Okay, so that's how the build stage works. So let me go
back to the pipeline. So the complete pipeline is, you know, marked as failed here, because the test
stage failed. And since the test stage failed, you know, the test job, the remaining jobs are skipped.
So before I talk about why the test failed, so let me also quickly go through the remaining jobs.
So these are the jobs which we saw earlier. So this is a code quality job, it took around
three minutes to complete this. Okay. And again, it's also going to upload the reports for you,
you can check out the reports as we saw them earlier. And then we have the container scanning,
it's going to scan the container image, which, you know, was generated in the build job.
And even it's going to find a lot of, you know, vulnerabilities, you can check out the
vulnerabilities. And you can also download the reports as we saw in the earlier sessions.
And then it's going to run the, you know, static analysis security testing (SAST) for the NodeJS
since it is a NodeJS based application, it's just going to run this SAST using the NodeJS
scan analyzer. And I'm not going in depth of this, because we have already seen this
in the previous session. So I'm just, you know, checking or showing you the logs.
Then there is a secret detection job, which is going to, you know, find out any leaks within
the current commit. So in the current commit, you know, we did not add any vulnerable files,
so it did not find anything. But if you want to do a historical scan, you can set up a variable.
So we will do that in the next, you know, demo. So that's about it. And finally, I think it's also
going to run the Semgrep SAST test. And it's going to, you know, upload the reports as well.
So all this are success. But what about this test job, which failed? So this test job is going to
run the test cases, which are available in the repository. So we have, you know,
defined the app-test.js with the test cases. So here again, it's going to, you know, make use of,
you know, Heroku buildpack. It identified or detected the Node.js application. It's going to
create the runtime environment for you, right? It's going to install the required binaries like
the Node.js and the npm binaries. It's going to install the dependencies like the node modules,
as you can see here. It's going to build if there are any build scripts available. It's going to
cache the dependencies. And, you know, it's going to, you know, build the application. Basically,
it's going to run the application. So here, it's not able to connect with MongoDB. And the reason
is, it's not able to find the URL parameter. If I go back to my source code, so if I go back,
if I go to changes, I have this app.js, right? So in the app.js, if I try to expand this,
so it is failing at this specific function. It's not able to connect with MongoDB because it
requires this Mongo URI, Mongo username, Mongo password environment variables. So these are the
variables which I'm not passing. And since I'm not passing them, it's not able to connect with
the database. And that's the reason it's not able to complete the testing job. So since failing over
here with exit code one, the pipeline was stopped here itself and the remaining jobs were canceled.
So how do I, you know, pass the environment variables? So the environment variables can
be passed again using the CI/CD variable setting. So I can simply go to settings, CI/CD variable,
variables. So we already defined five of them. So let me define one more or a few more things.
So the first one is going to be Mongo_URI. And the value is going to be your URI,
basically. I'm just going to paste it. Then I need to give Mongo_password. You can
also mask this, but I'm not going to mask it for the time being or I'll just mask it. And the
password is superpassword. So let me add this also. And then let me add the username.
So let me just add mongo_username and the value is super user. And apart from this,
I also want to enable the historic scan for Secret Detection. So let me add this variable.
So I have added three MongoDB variables. So apart from this, let me add another variable,
which is the secret detection historic scan for the secret detection part. And let me just,
give this as true. So let me reveal the values. So I think all this should be working. So once
you change this, the only thing which you need to do is I can go back to the pipeline. Instead
of triggering the entire pipeline, I just want to rerun the secret detection job and the test job.
So once you rerun them, since these are not yet failed, the other jobs will also be enabled. So
if these are successful, the next job or the next stage will be triggered. So the secret
detection job completed. So let's check this out first. And as you can see here, it gave a warning,
it's saying that it found two leaks as of now. So since I gave that historic scan as true,
it is going to scan all the previous commits as well. So it scanned around 35 commits and it found
two leaks. And again, if you want to find out what these leaks are, you can go to artifacts
and check out what these leaks are. So I'm not going to do that now, but you can check it out
by checking the JSON file. And then let's go to the test job, which is currently running.
So I guess it's going to take some time. So let me just pause the video. So as you can see here,
even the test job is successfully completed now. So if you talk about the job script,
if I scroll down, so it was able to successfully connect with the MongoDB. So if you see the
MongoDB connection is successful, and it was able to run the test cases successfully. And since there
are no errors, the job succeeded. So let me go back to the pipeline. So now since all the jobs
in the test stage have successfully completed, it's going to run the review stage. So what is
this review? Okay, so let me go to the documentation. So if you go to this stages part, so
after the test stages, you have the review apps. And again, this is an optional step. So if you
have a Kubernetes cluster, the review apps are going to deploy a temporary application to your
Kubernetes cluster. And it is done so that the developers, QA, or the product managers can
actually review, see, and interact with the code changes as part of the review process.
So it's going to create a dynamic environment, it's going to use that environment to deploy the
source code changes to your Kubernetes cluster. So as a reviewer, you can visually check the
changes, and you can either approve or reject the merge requests. And while using the review apps,
it's also going to use the Auto DevOps base domain, it's going to expose the application
using the Ingress URL. So we will talk about that. So that's the use of the review apps. So if
I go back to the pipeline, so if you see that review stage is currently running.
Again, it's going to take a lot of time for this. So let me quickly try to show you a few of the
logs. Okay, let me minimize all these things. So here, first thing is it's going to use the auto
deploy stage or the auto deploy stage option where it's going to use a Helm chart for deploying your
application. So it is going to connect, you know, using the
kube context, which we provided in the variables. Okay. And if you see here, it is using the kube
context, demo group, solar system DevOps, and the agent name, it switches the context, it's going to
ensure if the namespace is available. So by default, it's going to use the default namespace
in the review stage. And if the namespace does not exist, it's going to create the namespace for you.
And here it's, you know, using Helm 3. Okay, so it's using Helm, it's going to create a couple of
Helm secrets in the default namespace. And it's going to use the, you know, deploy command. So
here it's going to try and deploy the application, but this does not work. So I'll explain why it
does not work. Okay. So before I go to the Kubernetes part, let me show you the environment.
So if I go to operate and environments,
okay, if you see a new environment is created for us, right. So for different feature branches,
you know, an environment will be created. Currently, you know, we are working in the
feature Auto DevOps. So it's going to automatically create this, you know, review environment for you.
And it's going to, you know, log everything with respect to the deployments in this, you know,
feature branch or in this, you know, review environment. Okay. So let's see why this is,
you know, stuck here. Okay. So if I go back to my cluster, if I try to get all from the default
namespace, so I indeed see that there is a deployment called as review feature with
some unique tokens and there is a pod and the pod is in a crash loop back off. It's not able to,
you know, come to the ready state. So let's see why it's not able to come to the ready state.
Okay. So let me copy this. I'll do a quick kubectl describe and I'll just give the pod.
Okay. I think I need to give describe as pod.
And here you can see that it is trying to pull the image. So it was able to, you know,
pull the image from my, you know, GitLab container registry and it failed. Okay. Failed
restarting container. So let's try to check the logs. I can do kubectl get logs. It's failing
to start the container. So in the logs, you can see that there are some errors. So in the logs,
it is trying to, you know, start the NodeJS application using the npm start command.
So here it is again throwing a Mongoose error. It's not able to again connect with the MongoDB
or the Mongo database. And the reason is, again, we have not provided the Mongo URI username,
password for the pod. So we provided this, you know, username and the MongoDB variables
at the CI/CD variables. And this will be only available for the jobs which are running in GitLab.
Right. So the test job was run in the GitLab Runner, which has access to these variables.
But these variables, the Mongo variables are not accessible to the Kubernetes pods. Right. Since
the variables are not accessible here, you know, it can't connect with the database. Since it can't
connect with the database, the pod never comes to the ready state. If the pod doesn't come to the
ready state, you know, it will be automatically stopped. If you see the review job is deleted,
the review, you know, pods. So if I go back to my pipeline, so if you see, it is going to give you
an error saying that the job failed with exit code one. You won't be able to find many details here.
So you have to, you know, troubleshoot your Kubernetes pods to understand why it failed.
So since the review job failed, if I go back to the Pipeline,
you know, it's going to automatically delete whatever, you know, we created as part of this job.
Okay. So in the next session, we'll try to understand how to pass the environment variables
to the pods running in Kubernetes using this Auto DevOps feature. So that's all for now. Thank you.
