Let's go ahead, fix the issues and deploy the application to the review environment.
So, in the last session, you know, the review stage was failing because the pod could not
access the MongoDB environment variables. So, how do you define the variables?
So, if you go to the CI/CD, you know, options or the CI/CD variables under the Auto DevOps
customized tab. So, you can find that there are some variables which can be configured as
application secret variables. And, you know, in order to do that, you need to create CI/CD variables
with a prefix of K8s underscore secret underscore the name of the variable. And these variables
then will be, you know, made available to the pod, which is running as environment variables.
So, basically, the Auto DevOps job is going to create a Kubernetes secret based on the variables
which you provide. And those variables will be injected to the pod as, you know, environment
variables. Right. So, that is the documentation which explains it over here. So, I have already
defined them. So, if I go back to my CI/CD variables, you see that I have defined Mongo
URI and Mongo username. The only thing is I prefixed them with k8s underscore secret underscore
the keyword. OK. So, I did not add the password thing. So, let me quickly add, you know, k8s
underscore secret underscore Mongo underscore password. And the value is going to be super
password. OK. So, that is how I am going to define. Right. So, it is saying it has. OK.
That is how I am, you know, defining the variables. So, once the variables are defined,
so you can go ahead and, you know, restart only the review job because we have already seen this.
But before you, you know, restart the review job, you need to make sure that you have
cleaned the, you know, default namespace. OK. So, if I do kubectl within the default namespace,
you should not be seeing any previous deployment, pod, service, or replica set.
And at the same time, you should not be, you know, seeing any secrets. But the secrets are
not deleted automatically. You can see that, you know, there is this review secret still available
in the default branch. So, you have to manually delete this. If you do not delete this,
the review job will be failing again. OK. So, let me delete this secret as well. So, within
the default namespace, let me delete the secret, review secret. OK. So, now within the,
you know, default namespace, we have nothing related to the review feature, you know, job.
You can also do a quick helm ls and, you know, you should not see anything related to the,
you know, review job. So, let me clear this. So, now I will go back and I will trigger the
review job again. So, it is going to start the job again and it is going to go through the
same steps again. So, let us pause the video till this gets, you know, completed.
OK. So, as you can see here, again, all the steps have been run here and again,
it is still pending something. So, let us go check what is happening in the Kubernetes cluster. If I
do kubectl get all, I should be seeing a new pod is again running state, but the ready is not yet
ready. So, if I do logs quickly for the review job. So, the application is running on port 3000.
On port 3000. So, let me do a quick describe pod review. But here you can see that the readiness
probe is getting failed. So, let us understand why this is getting failed. So, before that,
let me show you the logs. So, if you see the kubectl logs for the review pod,
the server successfully started running on port 3000 because this is the port number which we
defined at the application level. It was also able to connect with MongoDB now successfully,
because if you see, if I do kubectl get secrets, there is a secret which got created.
sh helm releases. So, if I try to, you know, get this secret, sh helm releases hyphen o yaml.
It has, I think there is nothing much over there. So, let me get the review secret
to review hyphen o yaml. So, if you see within the review feature secret, it has the MongoDB password,
MongoDB URI and the MongoDB username as well. So, whatever variables which we have,
you know, added as a prefix with k8s underscore secret. So, those are created as a secret and
this secret is being used by the pod. So, if you go up since the secrets are available
in the logs, you can see that the pod was able to connect with the MongoDB.
But even after connecting with MongoDB, if you do the kubectl describe pods,
it is going to say that, you know, the liveness probe has failed and the readiness probe has
failed. Since these probes are failing, you know, the review job should also fail.
So, it is not yet failed. So, let me refresh this.
Okay, it is still taking time, but the job will fail again as, you know, we have seen earlier. So,
let me explain why the, you know, readiness probe and the liveness probe are failing.
So, if I try to do a quick kubectl describe pod again. So, this, you know, probes are failing
because it is trying to, you know, check the application readiness and liveliness
liveness by hitting it on port 5000. So, why is it using port 5000? It should be using port
3000 because our application, you know, runs and listens on port 3000. So, if you, you know,
check the app.js file of our application, you can see that, you know, it is listening,
app is listening on 3000 port number. So, the reason is by default, if you are using
the Auto DevOps and if it is using the auto deploy option. So, within the helm charts,
it's going to use the default port number as 5000. So, that is the reason even after deploying the
application or the pod, if you see the settings over here, it's going to use port 5000 by default.
And since it is not 5000, the application listens on 3000, the readiness and the liveness
probes are failing. So, how do you change this? So, do you need to hard code all your
applications to listen on port 5000? Maybe, that may be one of the solutions. But the other solution
is you can, you know, replace or configure custom port numbers as well based on your application's
requirement. And as you can see here, you can also see that the environment variables are being
fetched, you know, from this secret, which contains the MongoDB variables, by the way.
So, let me go down. So, let me try to do kubectl get on. So, the pod is still, you know, not yet
ready, because both liveness and readiness are failing. So, let me go back to the job. So,
the job is going to wait for some more time till it reaches the, you know, the wait timer,
and it's going to fail. So, let me refresh this once again. And yeah, the job failed. So, if you
see the job failed again. Okay. And as you can see here, it's going to give you some error message,
but it won't, you know, say that, you know, it's because of the port mismatch, you know,
within the logs. But how did I figure this out? Well, you know, exploring this, you know, you
see the error message is, let me just scroll down, you should be seeing a different error message.
Let me see the release failed uninstalled due to atomic, you know, being set client rate limiting.
And let me try to see if there are any other specific logs.
Okay. So, I don't see anything specific here. So, let me go to the second one.
Okay. So, I think these are the same ones.
So, you can also use the troubleshooting option. So, if you go back to Auto DevOps,
and there is a troubleshooting option. So, if you face any specific, you know, issues during
using the Auto DevOps, you can come to this troubleshooting page where it talks about the most,
you know, widely faced issues while working with Auto DevOps. And one of them is the one which
you're facing currently. So, this is a failed timeout waiting for the condition.
Failed timeout waiting for the condition. Okay. So, this happens if, you know,
the liveness or the readiness probes are failing, you know, during the deployment time. And the
reason is, if you see here, it's going to run against the root page of the deployed application
on port 5000. And if the application, you know, is not configured to run on 5000, this is going to
fail. So, what do we do now? So, in this case, right, so, we already saw this. So, you can
customize the values by using the Helm chart. And it also gives you the steps. So, you can create,
you know, auto deploy values to a YAML file at the root directory. And you can give some
custom ports, both for internal port, as well as the external port as well. Right. So, this is
for the service. But what about for other changes? So, you can check out what are the
all values available. So, you can just click on these custom values to Helm chart. It's going to
take you to the customize, you know, documentation page. It's going to, you know, talk about how you
can overwrite the default values. And, you know, you can also, you know, quickly, you know, see
what are the different values available. So, I think this is the default Helm chart. So, let me
go there. And if you scroll down, so, if you see, you know, these are the different variables which
are available, which you can overwrite based on your application requirement. So, out of this many,
you know, different variables, I'm just going to, you know, upgrade, you know, the service variables
or the values. So, how do I do that? I need to create this file within the root directory of my
repository. So, let me go back to my repository. So, in the, I think I'll do this in the feature
branch, because I'm working on the feature branch. So, in the feature branch, let me try to
add a new file. Okay. So, I'm just going to copy paste .gitlab/auto_deploy
values.yaml. And the same thing, I would like to just copy paste, you know, this specific YAML,
because I just want to update the service values. So, my application listens on port 3000. So,
I'm just going to use the value 3000 for both internal and the external ports.
So, let me commit the changes. I'll just say added new service ports.
Okay. And I'll just, you know, commit the changes to the same feature Auto DevOps branch. So,
it should again trigger a new pipeline. So, this pipeline should be completed. So,
let's go back to pipelines. Right. So, a new pipeline has been triggered. So, let's go check
this out. It has the same jobs, which will be running again. So, I don't want to again run
all the Code Quality, Continuous Scanning, and basically the SAST jobs, because we have already
seen this a couple of times. So, let me just cancel them to complete the pipeline a bit quicker.
Okay. So, I'm only interested in building the Docker image, pushing it to the GitLab
container registry, you know, doing the, you know, unit testing of the test cases
and the review job. Okay. So, I'll just pause the video till this gets completed.
Okay. So, as you can see here, the build job, the test job, and even the review job has been
successfully completed. So, if you go to the review job, you can see that, you know, the
application was successfully deployed using Helm. It also gives you an endpoint to test the
application. And the endpoint is nothing but it should be a combination of a random string
hyphen, the environment review hyphen, the branch and the, you know, Kubernetes
ingress domain. Okay. So, the same thing, you can check it out on your Kubernetes cluster,
you can do kubectl get pod, you see the pod is up and running. And at the same time,
it also creates an ingress. And this is the ingress, you know, URL, which you are, you know,
seeing in the logs. Okay. So, you can, you know, quickly test this out, or I'll do that in a
minute. So, you can, you know, test this out over here, let me, or let me go to the review environment.
So, the review environment holds all the details. So, if you see this is successful,
the previous deployment, there is also this view deployment. If you click on this,
I'm using a self-signed certificate. So, you have to agree to this, and it should be showing,
you know, your application deployed, like whatever changes you have done, that can be reviewed using
the review environment. And that is the intended use case of the review environment. And if I go
back, after this job, it's also going to run a few other jobs. So, the logs and the artifacts are
available to, you know, to be viewed later on, but I'm not interested in them for the time being.
So, let me go back to the pipeline. So, we have a couple of other jobs as well. So, which are the,
you know, browser performance and the stop review as well. So, what is this, you know,
browser performance? Okay. So, again, you can rely on the documentation. So, if you go to
the stages of Auto DevOps, so after the auto review apps job, basically, there is another job
called as the auto DAST, dynamic application security testing, but this is not enabled for us,
because it is only enabled in the ultimate tier and we are using the free tier. Okay. So, this job
is not enabled, but the next job, which is the auto browser, you know, performance testing,
this is enabled. So, here, it's going to measure the browser performance of a web application
using the site speed, you know, tool, and it's going to create a JSON report and it will be
available for us to review the performance score of each page. And it also, you know,
it's going to be uploaded so that you can, you know, review it as a report as well. Okay. And
by default, it's going to test the root page of your application. If you want to test additional
URLs, you can again create a file at the root of your repository and provide the endpoints which
need to be, you know, tested. Okay. So, if I go back to the pipeline, right, so even this job
has been successfully completed. If you see this has passed, it also shows you the artifacts. So,
you can quickly browse the artifacts. So, let me see what artifact has been generated.
So, there is something called a site speed result. And oh, it has a lot of HTML pages. So,
let me try to open one of the pages. Okay. It's going to redirect me to a different page.
So, this is the sitespeed.io. These are the reports which got auto-generated for my
application on the root tag. And to be honest, I have never used the sitespeed for the performance
analysis of my web pages. But if you are aware of it, like how this works, you know, you can check
out the reports and, you know, make sense out of it. Okay. So, there are different reports available.
You can just check the values. And maybe you have to improve the performance, you know, based on
this report, that would be, you know, a good solution. So, that's about the browser performance.
So, if I go back, I think there should be one last job in the pipeline. And that is the stop
review. So, once, you know, you have reviewed it, you can also clean, you know, whatever parts which
were created in this pipeline by clicking on the stop review option. This is a manual action. If
you see, you have to manually, you know, start this. But before you start this, you know, you
have to, you know, also check this out. You can manually check the merge request as well. So,
if I go to the merge request. So, I have created one merge request. So, within the merge request,
it's going to give you a lot of details. So, it's going to say that the previous pipeline has passed
with warnings. It's going to say that, you know, it has been deployed to the review environment,
you know, what we say environment. And you can also view the app here. So, the reviewers,
they will be able to, you know, view the changes visually by going to the application and seeing
the changes. So, that is, you know, provided using the review apps. And once you click on the stop
review, everything will be deleted and no one will be able to access the, you know, review application.
Okay. So, I mean, all the details will be provided in the Merge Request, as you can see here.
And it also provides a few other details. So, if you expand this, let me see if there are any
other details. Okay. I don't see much over here. So, let me, yeah, I mean, if you have also,
you know, run the other test cases like the Code Quality, NodeJS scanning, Secret Detection,
right. So, those reports will also be available in the Merge Request if you have run them.
But since I have, you know, cancelled them, those are not being displayed here. Okay. So,
that's about, you know, how you can, you know, manually update the port numbers or the values
in the Helm chart. And, you know, deploying the application to the, you know, review environment,
you can review it. And once you're done with the review part, you can simply, you know,
click on the stop review job, you have to manually run the job. So, it's going to clean up
whatever ports which were, you know, deployed as part of this pipeline. So, let me just complete
this and then we can close the session. So, I'll just go back to my cluster. If I do kubectl get
all, you know, I should be seeing, you know, the pods in terminating state because I started
the cleanup job. So, it is going to, you know, delete the deployment. And once the deployment
is deleted, any running pods will also be terminated. So, let me check the secrets.
If I go to secrets, even the secrets have been deleted. Let me check the Ingress.
Even the Ingress has been deleted, right. So, everything which we created as part of this
review environment will be deleted. So, even the port should be deleted. If I do kubectl get all,
you should not see anything related to the review port. So, that's how this is going to
work. So, even the review job has been successfully completed, the job succeeded.
So, if I go back to the pipeline, yep, so all the jobs have been successfully completed.
And the same thing can also be seen, I guess, in the environment as well. So,
let me just check the environment quickly.
Environments. So, in the review, if you see there, there is no feature Auto DevOps environment. So,
even the environment has been stopped. If you go to the stopped environments,
so you should see that the Auto DevOps environment was stopped. And, you know,
if you want to review like what was done in this, you know, environment, you can click on it and
it is going to show you all the deployments which were done for review purposes. So, that is about
the feature branch and the review environment. Thank you.
