Let's go ahead and automatically deploy the application to the production environment.
And we'll do this by accepting the Merge Request. So if you go back, so in the last session,
we completed the pipeline within the feature branch. And we also checked out the application
by deploying it to the review stage by using the Auto DevOps features. And the same thing can also
be checked and was also checked within the Merge Request. And since everything was working fine
in the review environment, we would like to go ahead and click on merge.
So I don't want to delete the source. So I'll just uncheck this. So let me just say merge.
This should be merged to the main branch. As soon as it is merged to the main branch,
it should again, you know, trigger a new pipeline. So let me go to the pipelines.
A new pipeline is triggered on the main branch, which has a stage lesser than the previous one.
So let's go here. And it's going to run the same build and the test job. But the only difference
here is it's going to, you know, deploy the application to the production environment.
And then it's also going to run the browser performance testing. So to make this, you know,
run quicker, let me just cancel the test jobs manually. So later in those, you know, demos,
I'll also talk about how to, you know, customize the Auto DevOps pipeline in order to avoid running,
you know, certain jobs as well. So we'll see that as we move forward. So for the time being,
I'll just pause the video till it comes, you know, to the production, you know, job.
So before I pause, let me go to my Kubernetes cluster, you know, CLI. So I'll just try to get
all from the production namespace. I should not see anything over here. So we'll, you know,
just pause the video till it, you know, comes to the production environment, and then check it out.
Okay, so as you can see here, the build job, the test job, and even the production job has
been successfully completed. So the production job basically did not wait for any approval,
it will, you know, just start this job as soon as the other two stages complete. Okay.
So let's go and check out the logs.
So again, it's going to use the same steps, which we have seen in the review job. So it's going to
deploy the application using a Helm chart. And it's also going to, you know, give you the URL
for testing purposes as well. So let me just go back to my virtual machine. And if I try to get
the pods, so if you see within the Kubernetes namespace, now I have a deployment replica set
of 10 replicas, because if you remember, we added a CI/CD variable with production replicas as 10.
So it's going to run 10 pods of the same application. Okay, so let me go back.
So if you see CI/CD setting variables, so the, if I scroll down, the production replicas were
defined as 10. So let me reveal the values 10. Since this is 10, it's going to run 10 pods within
the production namespace. Okay. So the same thing can also be viewed, you know, in the environment.
So it is deployed to the production environment. So if I go here, it's going to say that it's
successful. And it's also going to give me this UI option where I can view the deployment,
I have to accept the certificate. And it is running fine. And as you can see here, now the
pod name is production. And this is going to change if you try to make, you know, different
calls, because now we have around, you know, 10 pods, and it's going to load balance across all
the 10 pods. So if you only want to, you know, check the details of the operating system,
I can use /os in the endpoint, it's going to, you know, just give you, you know,
the string value of the pod name. So you can also do a curl command. So let me quickly
copy this. So let me run a curl command. I'm just copying this from a different tab.
So I have a command. So let me just stop this. So this is a while true command, it's going to just
loop through the curl command n number of times. So I'm just using while true to curl and I'm,
you know, passing the HTTP endpoint of the Ingress URL controller or the Ingress URL endpoint.
And then I can also, you know, highlight certain strings using the grep
command and the color. So if I want to highlight production, I just give production,
comma done, it's just going to highlight the keyword as well. So as you can see here,
it's, you know, load balancing across different pods. So you can see that it's using different
pod names. So this proves that, you know, it is making use of all the 10 pods and the
load balancing is happening. And the other thing is, if I go back, so once the production
job is completed, if I go back to the pipeline, it's going to do another round of browser
performance testing and it's going to store the results. So this is how, you know, you can use
the first, you know, deployment strategy if you go to CI/CD settings. So if you go to Auto DevOps,
so we have just, you know, tested how the Continuous Deployment to production option works.
So in the next sessions, in order to manually, you know, deploy the application to production,
you can use, you know, the third option, which is, you know, automatic deployment to staging
and also manual deployment to production, right? So we'll see how this is going to work
in the next session. But before, you know, I stop the video, I would like to talk about
something different. So if you remember, we have run a lot of jobs and few of the jobs,
you know, also generate certain reports, right? So if you talk about the test, you know, jobs like
the code quality, the SAST scanning, the secret detection, all these jobs, you know, generate
artifacts and it contains the reports of these jobs. And the same goes for the browser performance,
you know, reports as well. So as of now, in the free tier, you can check out the reports by
downloading them from artifacts. But within the ultimate tier or within the premium tier,
you could also, you know, check out the reports via specific features, which are available in
GitLab. So if you go to your work, so this is basically your workspace. And if you see,
you can analyze all the operations, security dashboards, vulnerability reports,
and environments from a single place. So if you try to, you know, access these environments,
right, so it can display environments from multiple different projects. So you can just
click on projects, you can search for, I think I have to give the complete project name. So if I,
let me just copy the complete project name. Okay, so I think I should select
demo group. Okay, demo group. Okay, so within the demo group, I think, okay,
I have to search for the project. So let me just search for the solar system
project. So I have solar system project across, you know, multiple groups, right. So I'll just
select the demo group, where I have the solar system Auto DevOps project, I can also select
it from the demo group, which we have tested in the previous session. So let me add the project.
But you can see that it's going to give you an error message saying that unable to add because
this dashboard is available for public projects and private projects within the premium plan.
The same goes for the operations and the security dashboards. And some of these dashboards are only
available within the ultimate plan, not even in the premium plan. Okay, so in the next session,
we are going to make use of the ultimate plan trial account and also explore these dashboards
as well. Along with exploring the dashboards, we will also make sure that the deployment to
the production environment should be happening manually only after certain approvals are
received during the pipeline execution. So those are, you know, available if you are in the ultimate
plan or within the premium plan, right. So currently, you know, we are in the free trial.
So we'll, you know, check these features in the next session. That's all for now. Thank you.
