Let's go ahead and do the canary deployment using the GitLab Auto DevOps features.
So back in the GitLab documentation, you can also use a deployment strategy where you can automatically deploy to a staging environment and manually deploy to production.
So we are making use of the third strategy.
So here, the pipeline is going to, you know, continuously deploy to the Staging Environment in the default branch.
And after staging deployment is successful, it's going to continuously deliver to the production.
So if you see the terms here in staging, it's going to do continuous deployment where it's going to automatically deploy the application.
And whereas to production, it is continuous delivery where you have to manually, you know, deploy the application to the production.
So talking about the setup, it's going to use a CI/CD variable called as staging enabled to one.
It's going to enable the staging environment and it's going to use incremental rollout mode to manual.
Okay, so what is this incremental rollout mode?
So what is canary?
So canary deployments are a popular continuous deployment strategy where, you know, you want, I mean, this is used where you want to, you know,
ship certain features to only a portion of your pods and watch their behavior as you increase the percentage of your user base who is visiting the deployed feature.
And if all works well, you can deploy the feature to production knowing that it shouldn't cause any problems.
And in the other case, if there are any issues while, you know, you are deploying to the smaller fleet of pods, you can quickly roll back as well.
Right. So that's how the canary deployment works.
And if you want to see how this works in GitLab CI, you can click on this incremental rollout.
It's going to, you know, simply explain like, you know, it's going to do a rollout manually.
So you can, you know, increment the, you know, the number of pods by 10 percent, 25, 50 and up to 100 percent.
So, for example, if you have like the number of replicas of pods, if you have 10 and if you try to roll out 10 percent, it's going to deploy the newer version of the application to a single pod.
And the remaining nine pods will be of the older version.
So you can, you know, increase the number of newer version pods by rolling out 25 percent and 50 percent.
And if anything is not working as expected, you can again, you know, roll back to 10 percent also.
And once you roll out 100 percent, there is no coming back.
So you can't scale down. So you must do a complete rollback of your deployment.
So let's try to understand this, you know, through a demo.
So back in my, you know, Solar System Auto DevOps project, the first thing which I would like to do is I would like to go to the CI/CD settings.
And for the Auto DevOps, let me make use of the third deployment strategy, automatic deployment to staging and manual deployment to production.
So let me save changes.
So a new pipeline got started, but I would like to cancel this because we will be doing this using a feature branch.
So let me, okay, it's not started. So I guess only the strategy got updated.
Okay, so nothing, nothing, no pipeline has been started.
Okay, so how do we do this?
So let me go back here, right?
So within my repository, I am in my main branch.
And if you see the main branch is also having a tag called as protected.
Okay, so let me quickly check this out.
So let me, okay, yeah, protected.
So we also protected the, you know, production environment as well.
So if I go to operate and environments.
Right. So we are also, you know, adding protection to the production environment.
And hence you can see that there is a new tag here that needs approval.
So this tag will not be there for staging or for the review environments because the only protected branch here is the production environment.
Right. So anything you're trying to deploy to the production environment, it needs to be, you know, approved by the approval list.
Okay, so we will come back to this in a minute.
So let's go back.
So we would like to make some changes in order to understand how the Canary release is going to work.
So what I want to do is I would like to edit the changes in a web IDE.
So we'll do a couple of changes.
Right. So the first change is, you know, within the index.html, I would like to, you know, change the background of my application.
And also, you know, I would like to make some more changes.
So let me quickly comment out line 31.
Okay. And I think this is not how you comment out in HTML.
So I need to use a different syntax.
Okay. So I commented out the animation part of the solar system.
And at the same time, I would like to change the background image.
So currently, the background image is also a GIF.
So I would like to change this to a static image.
So within images, I have a static background.png file.
So let me copy the path here.
Let me go back to index.html and just make this change.
Okay. Oh, it's copying the entire path.
So I only need the name of the file.
Right. images/static/background.png.
Okay. And apart from this, I would like to make one more change within the app.js file.
I'll just comment out the console.log, which I added earlier.
Or let me just add another console.log.
And in app-test.js, let me just add a new line.
Okay. That's it. So I just wanted to make changes in these, you know, three files.
Okay. And I'll just say, you know, testing, Auto DevOps, canary release or canary deployment.
So you can add any of them.
And I would like to, you know, commit this to a new branch.
Okay. So let me do a commit.
And let me use feature slash staging deployment or canary deployment.
I'll just use the word canary.
Okay. So let's click on enter.
It should be creating a new branch and committing the changes to the new branch.
Okay. I will create a Merge Request, but I'll use the GitLab UI for that.
So if I come back here, if I go to the Pipelines, a new pipeline should be triggered in the feature branch.
As I can see, there are multiple new stages added.
So let's try to check what is happening over here.
So if I go to this pipeline, it has around 12 jobs.
So it has the build job.
It has the test stage.
It has the review stage.
And it has a few additional stages.
It has DAST, dynamic application security testing.
So this was not enabled in our earlier demo because this is only part of the premium or the ultimate tier.
So since we enabled ultimate tier, now I'm able to access the dynamic application security testing as well.
And we have also seen the performance and the cleanup.
So the only change here is the dynamic application security testing stage has been enabled.
And within the test stage, it is also going to do the dependency scanning as well.
Again, this is part of the premium or the ultimate tier.
So this is going to take some time.
I'm going to allow all the jobs to be run.
So in the meantime, let's go ahead and raise a Merge Request for this.
So if I go back to the...
I think the branch is not yet updated.
So if I go to the Canary Deployment feature branch.
So we made some changes over here.
And let me create a Merge Request.
I'll just use the same things over here.
I'll assign this to myself, previous to myself.
And let's create the Merge Request.
So this should make use of the pipeline, which is already started.
So if I go back to the pipelines.
So it is going to make use of the existing pipeline, which is being triggered when I made changes to the feature branch.
So if you see the pipeline ID is 438, the last three digits.
And within the Merge Request, running the same pipeline as well.
So this is going to take a lot of time.
So let me go back.
I'm just going to pause the video, you know, till it completes all the jobs.
Okay, so as you can see, currently it is in the dynamic application security testing stage, the DAST stage.
But the previous stages have been successfully completed.
So let's talk about DAST and the new job which got triggered in the stage, which is dependency scanning.
So what are these jobs?
So we have not seen them in the earlier sessions.
So if I go back to the stages of the Auto DevOps.
So one of the stages is dependency scanning.
So which is used to run analysis on the project's dependencies, and it checks for potential security issues.
And this stage is skipped on licenses other than ultimate.
And since we have this license now, you know, it is triggering this job.
So this is also going to create a report and upload it as an artifact.
So that, you know, you can check this out even after the job gets completed.
And any security warnings, if they are detected, so they will be also displayed in the Merge Request page as well.
Right. So we'll be, you know, checking that as well.
And then we have also seen the DAST, which is dynamic application security testing.
As you can see, this is only available in the Ultimate tier.
And this is, you know, going to use the popular open source OWASP ZAP proxy tool to analyze the current code and check for potential security issues.
And if you're trying to, you know, run this on a feature branch, this is going to, you know, scan the application which gets deployed to the review environment.
And if you try to run this on the default branch, which is the main branch, you know, it's going to, you know, specifically deploy an application for this specific testing.
And then delete the application after the testing has been completed.
Okay. And whatever security warnings which, you know, get identified in this scan will be displayed in the security dashboard as well.
Okay. We'll check all these details once the job gets completed.
Okay. So let's go back and check out the pipeline.
So this is still in the dynamic application security testing.
So let me first check the dependency scanning and then come back to this.
Okay. So even this got completed successfully.
So it is using a gymnasium analyzer.
It's going to use this commit of the vulnerability database.
It's going to use something called a schema model 15 and it's going to run the test and it's going to upload the artifact as well.
Okay. So let's see what artifacts have been generated.
So I can go to browse.
Okay. It has a JSON file.
Let me try and see what file this is.
Okay. So it's using the CycloneDX format.
It's going to use this tool.
Okay. The author of the tool.
And it basically, you know, checks the dependencies which are available within the package lock.json, the npm dependencies.
And it has a lot of components.
So I think it's going to check all the dependencies which are part of your NodeJS application and which are available in this package.lock.json.
And it's going to give you the report.
Okay. So, I mean, I don't want to check all these things, but if you're interested to, you know, do the dependency scanning for security vulnerabilities,
this tool or this job is going to help you, you know, find out those issues.
So let me just close this, go back to the pipeline.
Okay. And I think all the stages have been successfully completed.
It is waiting for the review stop stage.
But let me just go to the DAST because we have already seen the other jobs in the previous session.
Let's check out the dynamic application security testing job.
And let me quickly scroll up.
Oh, it has a lot of lines.
Okay. So within the job script, I guess, you know, once the application got deployed to the review environment using the review job,
it's going to make use of the Ingress URL, which was, you know, saved as an artifact in the review job.
And it's going to use the Ingress URL and run or analyze the Ingress URL for any vulnerabilities.
As you can see, it is using DAST of this specific version on Python.
And it's going to use the ZAP proxy with these parameters.
And, you know, these are the logs of the proxy.
And if you scroll down, a lot of lines over here.
So it's going to basically, you know, analyze the Ingress URL by appending, you know, few endpoints.
It's going to check for certain headers and it's going to, you know, give you the result.
Either it's passing the rules, if anything is skipped, warnings, and if anything failed, basically.
Okay. So it's going to also, you know, check for different headers, cookies, cross-domain JavaScript, you know, inclusions, session details, HTTP to HTTPS transitions.
Right. So it's going to do a lot of testing and it's going to create a report.
So if you see the summary, it passed 42 tests, 6 were warnings and 12 tests have been skipped.
Okay. So all this will be uploaded, you know, within the reports.
So that's about the DAST test. So let me go back to the pipeline.
Okay. And the application is also, you know, deployed to review.
I think it should be working fine.
Let me quickly check this out. If I go to the environments dashboard.
Right. So I deployed this to the review environment.
So let me try to, so within the solar system, if I go to environments, I think the review environment is not being displayed over there.
Okay.
So we have the Canary deployment.
So if I try to open this live environment, I should be able to access the application.
So the application is working fine.
If you see the background has changed and also the solar system image is no longer, you know, spinning because we, you know, disabled it.
And the pod name is review-feature-hyphen-some-unique-values.
Okay. So it is working fine.
So let me go back to the Merge Request.
So in the Merge Request, let me refresh the page and let's see some of the reports which are being displayed here.
So as you can see here, it's going to say that the pipeline has passed, but you will be able to see a lot more details because we are in the ultimate trial.
So you can, of course, review the application by just going and clicking this.
It's going to show you the application and it's going to show you the license compliance.
It's going to run the license test as well.
It's going to show you if there are any issues with the type of licenses which we are using in the project.
So it's going to display saying that Apache license is being used by 20 packages and some other licenses also.
So based on this, you can also take some decisions if you want to use an open-source license or if you need to purchase any license as well.
So that's about the license compliance.
You have the code quality scan.
So even this scan, findings will be displayed in this Merge Request page.
Then it also shows you the browser performance metrics.
So it has two degraded issues and two issues are also improved.
So if you work with performance-based testing, this might be useful for you.
So to be honest, I'm not aware of what performance testing is going to be done for the application.
And then it also shows you the security scanning details.
So we ran container scanning and we also ran the dependency scanning.
So basically whatever happens in the SAST (Static Application Security Testing).
So all those findings will be reported here.
So if you see there is a high vulnerability of NodeJS, NoSQL injection and within the dynamic application security testing.
There are no critical issues, but there are eight other medium issues.
Whereas it's being reported here.
In secret detection, it found two vulnerabilities.
So it found the SSH private key and the RSA private key.
So these are two critical vulnerabilities.
So let me click on this.
It's going to show you the description of the error, the severity, the project where it found it and the file name as well.
And the identifier.
So these details are provided here.
You can create an issue so that you can assign it to someone and they can review it for you.
And then what about this RSA private key?
I think it's fine in the same file as well.
So you can just click on this.
It's going to give you the details.
It's going to show you the sent request and the actual response.
This is very useful for the reviewer and also for the developer to quickly understand the issue.
And they can also try to fix it by just following the content provided here.
The same thing goes for the SAST test as well.
It's going to show you at what line this issue was found.
So that's about the reports.
I think in container scanning also, it found a lot of issues.
So it has four high vulnerabilities, whereas 21 others like medium and I think medium.
So again, you can click on this.
It's going to give you a detailed description about what is the CVE, the status, severity, the location, basically the image where it was found.
And then some additional details about this vulnerability.
And if you go to this documentation, it also helps you to fix the vulnerability as well.
So here there is no solution provided, but you can just find out the issue and fix it.
So these are the details which are provided.
Apart from this, if you go to changes and if you go to let's go to app.js.
Let's see if it finds anything.
As you can see here, if I keep on extending my code, you can see some icons here.
If you hover your mouse on the icon, it's going to say that at this point, it found the security analysis, security issue over here, the vulnerability.
And at this point, it found some code quality issues.
So even this is also useful to quickly identify at what lines the issues or the vulnerabilities exist.
So that's about the Merge Request and the page.
I just wanted to show you like all these are available if you go with the Ultimate tier.
And apart from this, let me also quickly go back to the pipeline.
So in the pipeline, again, you have the security tab.
So where it again displays all the vulnerabilities, not one, but all the vulnerabilities.
You can just check them here. You can download the results, download the scanned resources.
So again, this is for all the tests which happened at this pipeline.
DAST, SAST, continuous scanning, dependency scanning, secret detection.
And it's also going to show you the number of vulnerabilities found in each of them.
You can also filter based on the severity and the tool as well.
Similarly, the licenses report will also be displayed here.
So here it's going to be a detailed one and the code quality issues will also be displayed here.
So all these tabs and descriptions are provided because we are using the ultimate tier.
So one last thing before I stop the session is about the dashboard, the security dashboard.
So let me go back to my projects page. I'll just go to the security dashboard.
So now I think this is not yet updated.
So let me go to vulnerability reports.
Okay. It's not yet displaying. So let me see the settings for which project I enabled this.
So I enabled it for the solar system Auto DevOps project.
So it should be able to show me the reports, but I'm not sure why it's not getting displayed.
So maybe take some time to collate the vulnerabilities and, you know, display them over here.
Okay. So that's about the Canary releases.
So we have not seen anything with respect to Canary.
So because we have just committed this to the feature branch.
So once you click on the Merge Request, it is going to trigger another pipeline for the protected branch.
And there we will be able to see the Canary releases.
And also we'll be able to notice, you know, how the deployment jobs are protected using the protected environments and the, you know, deployment rules.
Okay. So we'll be, you know, checking that out in the next session.
That's all for now. Thank you.
