Let's go ahead and see what is this rollback deployment option and how it can be used in our
example. So if I go back, generally rollbacks are used in order to undo any deployments if
there are any performance issues. But in our case, we don't have any performance issues,
so the application is working fine. But let's assume we have a lot of user complaints saying
that they don't like the new UI because everything is static, the background is static,
and the solar system is also static. It's not spinning anymore. So let's assume you're receiving
a lot of user bad reviews. So as a team, you would like to quickly rollback to the previously
working deployment. So how do we do that? So back in the documentation for environments
and deployments, there is a section called environment rollback. So you can rollback
your deployment to a specific commit. And when you do this, a new deployment is created,
and it's going to have its own unique job ID. And talking about rollbacks, if your
deployment job within your pipeline depends on the previously generated artifacts,
we must manually regenerate them in order to use those artifacts in a deploy job. So the rollback
is only going to trigger a deployment job, it won't trigger the other jobs. And for rolling back,
you can quickly go back to your environments. So this is the previous pipeline which we executed,
where we rolled out to 100% in production, and the output was this static page.
So to rollback to the previously running deployment, you can go back to your
operational environments. Since we want to do this in the production environment,
you have to go to production. And it's going to show you all the deployments which happened.
So currently, you know, I would like to, you know, rollback to my previous commit, which was,
you know, successful earlier. And you can only rollback to successful deployments, you can't
rollback to failed, you know, deployments. Okay, so if you see, I have an option called as rollback
environment. And the other option is, you can also redeploy the same, you know, commit to the
same environment as well. Okay, so you have these two options, redeploying and rolling back. So as
of now, I would like to rollback. Okay, so this is the commit to which I would like to rollback,
which worked fine. So let me click on, you know, rollback environment, it's going to, you know,
say that, you know, it's going to be rolled back to the previously successful deployment for this
commit. So if you want, you can quickly check what you have in this commit, right. So I know that,
you know, it does not have any static UI in this, you know, commit, you know, history. So I'm just
going to go ahead and click on rollback environment. So what's going to happen, if you see,
it's going to create a new job. And the job is also in pending state. The reason it is in waiting
state, because, you know, you have to manually approve whenever you deploy to the production,
you know, environment. So before I approve this, so if I go to the job, so let me click on this
job ID, it's going to take me to the job. And this is going to run in the same pipeline. So if I go
to the pipeline, this is a different pipeline. But if you see here, we only have, you know,
one production job. Okay. So if you see the other jobs are not triggered. So if you want to have,
you know, an artifact, you know, based on the previous stages of the previous job,
you have to manually rerun the job, you know, get the artifact uploaded, and then, you know,
run the production job so that the artifact can be used here. Okay, so that's how you need to do it.
So for the time being, let me quickly approve this. I'm just going to say, okay. And let me
say approve. Okay, so once it is approved, I have to go back here, let me click on Okay,
it's going to be automatically refreshed. So let me click on Run job. So it's going to run
only the deployment job. So let me quickly pause the video. But before pausing,
let me just, you know, show you like, you know, these are the pods which we have currently and
this will be replaced by, you know, a newer set of pods. Okay, so let me go back here.
And it's also doing the deployment. So I guess it's a bit quicker now, since we have already
done this a couple of times. So let me, you know, go back to the cluster. Let's see what is
happening here. As you can see here, some of the pods are in terminating stage and some of the
pods are in running state. So just created five seconds ago. So the deployment is happening. So
let's give it a few more seconds. And I guess this should be completed. So I guess it is in progress.
So let me check this out again. And as you can see, all the previous parts which have,
you know, 17 hours ago, which we created 17 hours ago, are in terminating status.
And all the newer parts which we created just like a few seconds ago are in running state.
So this means that the rollback has been completed. We can also test this by, you know,
hitting the endpoint. So let me go back to the browser. So the job is successfully completed.
You can see the job succeeded here. So if I go back, or I think I can just hit this endpoint.
Right. So if you see, I am able to see the dynamic UI. When I say dynamic, you know,
you see that the solar system is spinning and the background is no more static color. It's like a
GIF. Right. So that's how you can quickly rollback. So this was the previous commit UI. So
if I refresh this, it should, you know, point to the newer parts which have, you know, the previous
commit, you know, HTML page. Okay. So that's how you can, you know, quickly rollback your deployments
if you have any issues within the newer deployments. And if needed, you can also, you know,
redeploy, you know, the same commit to the environment as well. So that's all for now. Thank you.
