ript


right? Good morning everyone.
Yeah online students can you hear me? Can you please respond in chat window?
Okay.
So, how are you guys? Fine. Superb.
Welcome to Naria Technologies and welcome to Fullstack Java training.
Okay, let me introduce myself. So my name is Haric Krishna and I'm MCA
graduate 2005 past. Okay, very very old. You are super senior. Okay. Uh next. So
I have 19 years of experience in Java training and teaching, Java teaching and Java development projects development
also. So first I have worked as a Java trainer in the year two December 2004.
Sir 2005 passed out. How did you work in 2004? Right. Good question. Uh so I love
teaching. So I was uh while I was uh learning I mean while I mean during the
MC itself I used to give some small small training to my juniors and after I come to Hyderabad for project doing or
like you everyone should come to Hyderabadan. So my MCA final project I have to submit for that project
submission I have to come to one institute. Huh. So then I have found some one or two institutes there I
bought MCL MC's final project like you and then they realized that there are
there is a huge opportunity a big opportunity in the training division because I didn't find the proper
training there. So I decided to become Java trainer to give you good subject to
the students and then later because of my parents force you know right. So once
you got the job slowly slowly you have to plan for marriage lot of things all right so if you go to marriage the first
question will ask by what people what your son is doing if they say my son is teaching Java hydro people feel bad no
that's why my brother and father used to force me hey you have to join software industry job not Java train then I
search for the Java development side and in January 2006 I got job in development side so for last 18 years and uh and I
have been working as a trainer and also as a developer. Okay, freelance developer I am working. Now if you take
training from me, you have the two advantages. You will get the knowledge from development point of view and also
from the textbooks point of view. Textbooks means what? As a student, you are just college out students just
college completed students. If I all of a sudden teach you at the project level, you cannot understand. So first I will
start training at the very basic level means from the definition college level
slowly slowly point by point I will add program by program I'll add and we'll start developing projects okay now so
you will get knowledge not only at the textbook level also you will get the knowledge at projects development level
also that is the advantage of uh uh training from me okay done so tell me you all people came here for what
purpose so just for learning learning Java and knowing what is Java or you wanted to get a job in IT industry for a
developing projects. Come on, what is your target? You are just come to Hyderabad from college
subject point of to get the job to get job. So all the people should have a
mindset such a way uh once this course completed I have to get job. I have to
attend interviews. I have to clear the interview and in company I have to understand the project architecture. I
should able to understand already written programs and projects. I have to add new code in that in that program.
For example, sometimes you are calling to the call center and saying this is the problem I faced recently. I have got
a problem with the Jio's network. Then I called to call center and informed okay this is the problem I am facing. Then
call center person told give me one week time I'll solve your problem. After one week I got a mail your problem solved.
Who worked on that problem? I am using Jio app or I'm using some other ael app or I am using bsnl app. In the app some
functionality is not working for me. That is called what? Bug. I am facing with one problem that is called bug.
When I say problem then the call center people will inform that problem to the backend app developers. That backend app
developers are what you people future. Okay. You people are working background
and tell me you got job in the company. In company are you developing on new projects development? No. You are
working on already developed project either for fixing the bugs. Either for
fixing the bugs or for adding the new code. If you want to fix the bugs or you want to add the new code in that you
should understand project architecture and already available programs or not. So our training should go such a way you
people should easily understand what is happening in the company. The company
project architecture you have to understand and how to add the code in the project you should understand how to
modify existing project you should understand and first of all how to understand the team team lead team
member telling the requirement also now the terminology you have to understand huh tell me now you want to take this
course as just college level subject learning or you want to take this course
as a bridge moving from college to software industry you want to use it as a bridge Or you
want to use it just as a normal subject as a bridge. Right? Uh you should have
future what you are doing that awareness. If you have that realization what you are doing so that it is easy
for you to learn the subject because you have a target. When target is there we
can reach it easily. When you don't have target you'll become targetless. We are going that side we are going this side.
Somebody come and say mama this is not required. Okay thanks. will drop if somebody say you need this then you will
drop it you will go there like a monkey from this branch to that branch that branch to this branch will jump finally
you don't have patency to get that fruits so you should have proper agenda
in today class I want to give you first clear clarity on what is full stack the
most trending and demanding word in the market right full stack full stack full stack last three four years the word
full stack is bombarding in the market like anything. Okay. What is full stack? Latest people are calling as a
fullstack. Olden days is this word is there or not. First we need to understand what is a fullstack and why
fullstack Java development course is most trending and uh what do you call demanding course in the market and next
why is fullstack is a trending course and next what are the different courses we have to do as part of fullstack and
then next what is the project architecture and fullstack Java courses completion steps you are learning few
courses it's not just one course it has a divisions okay what are the different divisions are there and you have to
learn And then core java course details as a door as a main door or entry point
of full course fullstack course is core java. So as part of core java course details what are you learning that you
are going to lend. So this is our agenda. Is it clear for all the people first you have to understand these
points and then we can go forward next points. Okay specs by can you please come forward chair. Hello black shirt
test. Yeah come. You are not listening. You are not making just class started 5 minutes only
like keep on you are talking with that friend so don't sit next to the friends most dangerous people not sit here
okay now be that is a problem right first second completed
be complete still you are behaving like a student completed and you are ready
for job now so you should focus only on job Not on the friend, not on the lover. Okay. Now, only focus on job. Okay?
Please concentrate. Okay? These two hours are very very important for you. Okay? It's not your college like a
college lecturer. I'm not coming here just for telling what is there in the book. Isn't it? You are here come to
extra training. Again, you are coming here not for learning what is there in the textbook. Okay? So, please try to
focus. Uh, now let's start. Tell me now what is a full stack? What do you know about
fullstack? Come on. Come on. Everyone participate. What do you know about fullstack?
What is full stack development? Now don't focus on the people. Okay? Just concentrate on me. I'm asking a
question. What is full stack development? Do you know anything about fullstack development?
Come on. Come on. Have you enquired anything about full stack or you don't know anything? Just a blank mind.
Come on. React. Interact. Class should be interactive. Okay. Class should be discussion. It's not like college one
way. So don't think like a college. Okay. You are in company. In a company
you have to interact with your team lead, team members, right? Uh so you have to talk. You should be talkative.
You should not just silently sit and listen. Okay? Listening. Golden days are over. Now is the time you have to start
work. Come on. I fully encourage you to work in the class so that you'll become experienced person. Quickly you will
understand everything. Don't sit silently. Please try to respond. Please try to respond and tell me now. What is
full stack development? What do you know about full stack? Come on. Come on. What is full stack?
Full full stack. Huh?
Okay. Full knowledge on project development is called what? Full stack.
Excellent. Wonderful. Now have you come across this word
family pack, single pack, full pack, six pack, eight pack. Remember uh zero pack,
right? Full stack is nothing but family pack. Full fridge. All courses required
to develop one complete project is named as what? Full stack.
Olden days we used to call it as complete Java complete.net
complete Python complete the word called complete is now changed in the market as
what full stack is clear a complete list of courses required for a developing
project is called what full stack. So what is a full stack development? Uh a
fullstack development is nothing but it is very simple. The process of developing a complete project the
process of developing a complete project end to end is called what? Full stack
development. Simple statement. Okay. A very simple the process of developing a
complete project end to end is called full stack development. Is it clear? So
do you like to write notes? Some people are wish to write notes now. Uh let it better write not write notes.
One second one second I will tell you.
Uh this is your first page notes first page did you buy new book
or you come with rough notes? If you come with rough notes and you are not
you are not you know serious about your career. Okay. So when we we our old
generation people are going for the course new book new pen do some puja
okay to the god praying the god god I'm starting my new career new life please bless me uh all right no problem. So try
to buy new book at least from tomorrow. Listen carefully. This is your book
first page. Please do what I'm saying here. In your
first page corner of this page here, please write down your name.
Write down your name. Your name, not my name.
Corner of the page, at top corner of the page, you write your name.
Okay. Next, write on your mobile number also
name and mobile number. For offline students, it's very important. Online students, it's okay because it's you are
there in your home and learning. For offline students, it's very important. Why? No, you are gaju.
You will forgot your notes in the class and go. So that if you have name and mobile number, I can return your book.
Okay. Then in the middle of the page, please write down your course.
Full stack development.
Full stack development. Full stack sorry full stack
development by using Java.
Fullstack development. There are different fullstack developments are there. We are doing this fullstack
development by using Java. Fullstack development by using Java. Very very
important. Write on please by Har Krishna Tech. It's also very important. Huh?
You should people should know now where you are learning. No problem. Right.
This is your first page. what you are learning, why you are
learning, you know, childhood LKG level story. Okay. Uh now go to second page.
In second page, please write down agenda what you are learning in this one of two
days. Please write down this.
What is the duration of the course? What is the fees? Okay. Who is your admin? How to register for the course? All the
details I will tell you. Please don't worry about them. Try to focus on what I am trying to tell. Okay?
Everything every detail I'll give. Admin number I'll give uh telegram group I will give okay Google classroom code I
will give everything I'll give. All details I will tell you. So today full focus on prerequisite knowledge. Okay.
And online students please don't click on raise hand button. It will disturbance.
If you want interact with me use a chart window. In chat window you can respond any question.
Yeah. Offline this is a offline and online classes. You can come to Hyderabad offline class.
So this course is both offline and online.
Hi Prasad. Yeah, I'll tell you Priya Priya
Chendria. I'll tell you the course duration everything but today I don't want to discuss on course duration.
This is fullstack Java not only Java fullstack Java it is.
Yes this course is for both freshers and experience. Whoever wanted to come to softed industry everyone can join. After
my training completed, you can apply for the job. Minimum four plus years of experience.
Pressure to four plus years of experience. You can try.
Yeah. Joti Kumari you can take admission to fullstack Java or only to core Java also. Okay. It's up
to you. It's not rule that you know you have to take admission for fullstack Java fully
what is your need based on that you can choose the courses okay
yeah I'm going to show you everything okay please try to just wait and end of the class I will give you all doubts
clarity okay online students please wait that's what now here I'm already mentioned right fullstack Java course
completion fullstack Java course cover details everything I'll teach by end of the You should have patency.
Uh now write up completed this one. Right now first point what is fullstack Java development? You can write heading
or directly point the process of developing. Right up I'll tell you right the process of developing. Write down
write down the process of developing a complete project.
The process of developing a complete project.
The process of developing a complete project. End to end. Complete project.
End to end. End to end
is called is called
is called full stack development. is called full stack development.
Uh now what is the meaning of end to end
from first to last? Okay. The meaning of full stack end to end is okay. Why it is
stopped? Look at here. This is the project I'm
taking. This is the project. I'm telling you this project this is called front end
front end what you are seeing is called what front end a project first what you
are seeing is called front end one end when you click on this shoes button okay
when you click on this shoes image then this shoes information we are getting
from where this shoes information getting is it in the browser no background of this page what is the page
you are seeing The background of this page we have some more code database
code and database front end what you are seeing is one end and the back end we
have two more levels are there program level and it's a back end one more level is there called what database so a
project is divided into three parts number one front end what you are seeing
that is called UI stands for user interface everyone respond is what the
first first part we are calling it as UI everyone everyone Babu Nana please Nana
respond okay so what the first one is called UI the terminology what you are learning completely new if you don't
catch these words you cannot understand tomorrow class you want to understand tomorrow class so tomorrow class is
fully depending on today class so tell me every project is divided into how
many parts three parts first part is called UI as a customer or a end user as
a client what you will see only UI. Now UI background based on the clicks you
are doing background when a program is running that program is called
middleware what we call middleware front end middleware and background of this
program it has to collect the data store data collect the data for storing data and for collecting data background one
more program is running that is nothing but what database server what database
server so tell me a project is divided into how many parts? Three parts. First one UI.
Second one programming. I didn't say front end. Now if I say
front end then you should say what middleware back end. When I say UI UI terminology front end what contain UI.
Then UI background what is there? Program. Program. Programming or programs. And background of programming
what will be there? Database. So what is the front end? UI. What is middleware program? What is
back end database? What is one end UI? What is the next and last end database?
So tell me what is a full stack? A full stack is nothing but developing a project complete end to end means from
front end to back end. Means from the front end screens to backend database is
called what? Full stack development. Developing a complete project is called
what? full stack development and tell me you want to become fullstack developer or you want to become Java developer
confusion came I asked one confusion question you want to become fullstack developer or Java developer sir what is
the difference between fullstack developer Java developer uh now fullstack developer has jobs Java
developers have jobs Java developer no jobs Python developer no jobs developer
no jobs PHP developer no jobs fullstack developer full jobs.
What is the difference between fullstack development and Java development? Full stack development means a developer a
person who can develop full project. Full project means what? UI, programming
and database. All three layers of the all three parts are three layers of the
project. If you able to develop then you are called what? Fullstack developer. If you are sir I am a Java developer sir
then which part only you can develop middle programming only you can develop then who will develop front end of your
page who can develop back end of your project no one can develop so you need some other person so company has to
depending on some other person are you following my point a full stack development means UI plus programming
plus database all three you develop then you are called what full stack developer
if you Say h no no no no no I know only Java programs oh that UI programs clungy
I don't want more database very tough I don't want then get out I don't give you job because you are only Java developer
only Java developer then no jobs fullstack developer yes you have job are you catching my point so full stack is
the most trending and demanding course in the market why why full stack you
have to choose why you should be a full stack what do you call full stack trainer why you should be a fullstack
developer Why you should be a fullstack learner? Uh because in the market fullstack the word called fullstack is a
full trending because as a fullstack developer you are able to develop the
code either in the UI part or in the programming part or in the database part. Is it clear? Let me take one
example for you to clarity. Suppose now I wanted to start one vehicle renting uh
company. Okay. Vehicles renting company and I have started then I am the owner of the shop. Okay. Owner of the company.
One driver came to my my company for job. Then will I ask him do you know car
driving? Shall I ask him do you know bus driving or shall I ask him do you know driving?
What will I ask? You are the owner. Suppose you are the owner. You are conduct you are interviewing him. Then
he came here and say hello sir I can drive the car very nicely wonderfully. Will you give job? No. Why? Because I
have not only car I have what bus? I have lorry I have big truck. I have train. So different vehicles are there
in my shop. So which vehicle the customer is asking? I don't know. As a driver you must drive any vehicle. If
you say I am only car driver will you get the job? No. If you say yes sir I
can drive any vehicle your wish you can test me. That means then I am interested to give you interview. I can I'm
interested to conduct interview. I'm interested to give you job. If you are not up to the level yes I'm ready to
give you training. But you must have knowledge on all the three parts. So tell me in our cricket who is having
more demand a specialist batsman, a specialist bowler or allrounder? Uh
allrounder is having more demand. So tell me who is a fullstack developer, a specialist person allrounder. Allrounder
allrounders are always having more demand. But at the same time you should be specialist in one area little bit
little bit I know and will not give job. You should be either batting allrounder or you should be a bowling allrounder.
Okay sir I am just allrounder I know little bit and will not go. So as a full
stack Java developer you should be master in Java and have idea on UI and
database. As a fullstack Python developer, you should be strong knowledge on where Python have ID on UI
and database. Being a fullstack UI developer, you should be strong knowledge on UI, basic idea on
programming. So as a fullstack developer, you should have knowledge on all the three parts. What the three
parts? UI, programming and database. So tell me now again hope you got clarity
on what is fullstack Java development. Fullstack Java development means the process of developing complete project
end to end. What the meaning of end to end and end to end means from the front
end screens to back end database table. Is it clear? Write down that statement now down. End to end means
students. Anytime you got doubt,
you can send message in the chat window. Okay?
And when I don't respond your question, don't repeat the question again and again.
When I'm teaching, I cannot see your message. When finish my explanation, I will check your message and give you
explanation. Okay? Uh
uh point completed. Uh next point. Why full stack Java?
Right up. Why full stack Java? I mean why fullstack development?
Next point. Why fullstack development? I'm not mentioning Java here. I am focusing only on what? Fullstack. Then
what is the meaning of fullstack? Java development, Python development, net development. I will give you clarity.
First let us focus only on the word fullstack. Uh write down please this statement. Fullstack development is the
full stack development is the most ever.
It's it's not today, tomorrow, ever, forever is the most ever trending and demanding
course. trending and demanding course
because because
I'll tell you because a full stack developer
because a fullstack developer because a fullstack developer
can Because a fullstack developer can
develop can develop
full project can develop full project
all full project. All three layers.
All three layers programs. All three layers programs.
All three layers programs.
Next bullet point. If we are a fullstack developer.
If we are a fullstack developer.
If we are a fullstack developer. Write down three bullet points.
Getting job in IT industry is very easy.
Getting job in IT industry is very easy.
Second, sustaining in the job.
Sustaining in the job. Sustaining means not facing any difficulties in the job.
Okay. Sustaining in the job and moving
moving to another trending technologies.
Moving to another trending technologies.
Moving to another trending technologies is more easy.
is more easy or so easy whatever.
Huh? Try to answer now. Learning fullstack Java development means learning full project. Now one company
develop the project by using Java. Another company develop project by using Python. Some other company developing
project by using net. Uh now tell me you learn how to drive splender bike. Can
you drive another kind of bike or not? You learn how to drive one car, can you
drive another high-end or low-end car or not? Yes. So if you learn fullstack Java, how to develop a project, it's
easy for you to move from current technology to another technology because all are following same style. You know
how to eat chicken biryani? Is it easy for you eat mutton biryani or not? Chicken biryani bones are small, mutton
biryani boards are large. That is only difference. That means one technology to another technology small small syntaxes
differences will be there but remaining everything is what? Same. Is it clear my point? Huh? Then so we got clarity on
what is fullstack Java? Why fullstack Java? It is the time now you have to
understand very very important story project architecture. You get it?
Project architecture. Once you understand this project architecture, you will come to know what are the
courses you have to learn, in which order you have to learn, why you have to learn, you will get clarity.
Okay papu pande if you don't eat chicken biryani, mutton biryani, you know how to eat one sweet
jungry. Uh now next day you want to eat balucha. Can you eat that? Yes.
Simple.
Right. First point, every project is divided into first point.
Every project is divided into
three parts. Every project is divided into three parts. Number one,
UI in bracket user interface.
Number one, UI user interface. Number two,
programming. UI programming. Number three,
uh, number three, database.
Okay. A r, you have so many doubts, man. Why you have those many doubts confusing your brain?
Just follow me. No. Don't have any expectations. Okay. Now,
and don't have many doubts. You want to continue this class or you wanted to stop.
If you want to continue till the end, silently follow me. Okay? Now,
don't disturb your brain too much. It will cry.
Huh? Now look at here I want write it as a architecture.
Yeah, Benny, this is a offline online class. You can come to classroom.
And now this is UI user interface
and this is programming.
This is programming.
Okay. And this is database in after this
explanation completed. I'm expecting one answer from you. Are you ready?
Uh listen carefully. after my explanation completed I'll ask one question so everyone should answer so
please focus carefully UI programming and this is database
uh where is end user end user is nothing but you and me this is the chair for end
user okay and he is Mr. and user
sitting on chair and interact. Okay.
Bhavana core Java is part of fullstack Java. The first course in fullstack Java is core Java. Learning fast track
fullstack Java is nothing but you are learning core Java only. And for the next person
uh listen guys inside UI you will have forms and we have what reports. What you
have forms and reports. Forms and reports. Two parts will be there in as
part of UI you will have forms and you will have reports. Okay. What is the
meaning of form? Anybody know? Anybody know what is a form? A form is
nothing but label text box label text box and then
button. So it's nothing but a submit form. End user enter the data. End user
enter the data. Nothing but you enter the data inside this textbook like login
form, registration form. Okay. Uh then after entering your data this username
and password will be given to whom programming. Inside programming we have
what programs. What these programs will do? These programs will validate and
calculate will perform validations and calculations.
Have you ever faced a problem when you pass your username and password? Did you get error message
invalid username and password? That means the username and password you gave to the program background your system is
verifying that is right or wrong. If it is right, it is taking to you the next
page. If it is wrong, throw a error. So who will do that job? That job will be
done by this programming language. Nothing but this program will do that job. Sound is vibrating online students.
Is everyone facing the problem with voice?
Okay. Now is it clear? Still breaking.
Is it still problem? Uh okay. So still if you face problem
let me now tell me what are you doing? You are the end user is giving inputs to
the form. Form is giving the inputs to whom now? Program. Then background
programs are checking the data is correct or not. If the given data is correct, it is performing what?
Calculations. Uh then then now this validations and
calculation generating output that output is storing inside where database
inside database. Inside database now we are going to have something called
tables. Do you know this point table is nothing but what? Rows and columns. We
will try to understand this project development with one example. Okay. Today I'm giving you clarity on how the
project is look like and once you understand this project architecture and flow we will try to understand with
example also. Okay. Now I will take one real example.
Uh listen so now what happened? UI end user giving inputs to the UI and UI is
giving those inputs to whom. Now programming then program will verify the
given inputs and inputs are valid or not. If valid generates the result then
it will store that input and output both sometimes input also will be stored both
input and output will be stored in the database tables. These are called our
tables. So first people all people got clarity here. Huh? Can you please try to tell
me? First every project is divided into how many parts? Three parts. First one
is what? UI. Second one is programming. Third one is database. Three parts are
there. Uni UI what are all available? Two things forms and reports. UI
contains two points. Forms and reports. Programming contains what? programs to
perform different validations and calculations. Uh database contains
tables for storing data permanently. The given data is coming and storing here.
The given data is coming and storing here as rows. First row, okay, first
row, first data, first row, second customer data, second row, third customer data, third row. Like this rows
and columns. In mathematics, you have matrix. Huh? That matrix in the programming languages we call what?
Table. That's it. Point is clear right? Uh then tell me once data stored in the
database table successfully then the database will tell to the program babu
your data is saved successfully then return information to the program saying
that stored successfully. Then the program is giving that information to the UI via by using a concept called
what? Report. Then the report uh the report will show you what here output.
Okay. Nothing but it will show here result or response. What is a result or
response?
Result or response. Response is spelling C.
English masters
and now that result will be shown to result will be shown to end user.
Uh shall we apply this diagram on the real time example? Uh observe now I am
taking browser
is a project. It's a website. It is a project. The moment I am an end user I type narishit.com. Press enter. Then
tell me I got here a homepage. Uh now this is called you are here. Are you
able to apply this diagram here? Please apply this diagram. I am the end user. I open browser. In the browser I have
typed narishit.com. Then the website is open for me. Uh this is UI. This is this whatever you are
seeing it is a form or report. Form or reporter.
Where is form? Where is the text box? It is a report. It is showing me some information. Uh
future skills narish id.com fullstack data
port. I am reading data. The first page loading into your browser is generally
called homepage. what we call homepage. So the report can be the first page that
is called generally what homepage in this homepage we will have both two things are there number one report and
also pages also there if you observe here there is a button called what login uh now I'm clicking on login place
please na focus later you can write that names and all very important topic we are discussing today class is a time
pass class important class uh your next duration of your entire
life your entire life Start from today till you retired from the IT industry
every day you are working on the story only. So please focus don't miss even
one word also I'm talking one session look down look up completely gone. So please focus on huh tell me now again
repeating okay because someone just focused okay uh now open browser and type narishit.com. When I type
narishit.com what happened? We got homepage. A homepage is a collection of
both report and forms. forms and reports both will be there. Uh here I have a button called what? Login. Click on
login page. Uh when I click on login page, I got what is this? Uh reporter
form form. It is a form. Uh in this form now I am giving my mobile number. Okay. Uh enter
email or mobile number. I'm entering mobile number 9010454584.
Okay. And I'm entering my password. Hi the pitch number. Okay. Hi. Hi. Hello.
How are you? Something I gave. Then click on login. Tell me what happened.
Are you using your brain now? Are using the explanation I gave in the previous slide?
Don't use your brain. Huh? Don't show your talent. Okay. Now when I ask a question means I'm not expecting you
show your talent. Right? I'm expecting you to use the knowledge what I have given. All the people are here to use
your brain or to train your brain. To train your brain or to write notes.
Hey, you are not here for writing notes. Because from today, next coming your 40
years of life so much of content you have to write notes. That much notes you can write. No, you should start
understanding everything and feeding in your brain. Notes is only for future reference. Tomorrow, day after tomorrow
reference purpose. understand my point. So change your mind today onwards your thought process is what what I am
telling you should carefully remember. Every point I'll explain you with a diagram. Every point I'll explain with a
diagram. I don't explain single point just like a theory. Every point I'll put like a diagram. If you remember the
diagram understanding answering to my questions will be very very easy. Uh so tell me whenever I show you project then
immediately your mind should say oh he's talking about three parts UIA
programming database okay what do you want tell me uh now now I have open
browser oh he's talking about UI UI and how many words should come to your mind two words number one forms and reports a
what we do in the form give the input what we do on the report response what this website is doing what this website
is telling I'm going to read it that is response. Uh okay. Open the browser and type naradi.com, Amazon.com,
facebook.com, instagram.com, xyz.com. Then what is the first page is coming?
Homepage which contain both forms and reports. So first what we see report
means the information about the website. Somewhere the button or hyperlink something will be there. Click on it the
next page will come. The next page may be report maybe form. Are you catching my point? Uh now I click on I click on
this button. What is that button? Click on login page. When I click on login page it is asking me to enter username
and password. Then click on this button. Everyone tell me when I click on this button the username password correct or
wrong checking in this browser background program. Uh you have to visualize background of
this screen. We have what program uh the program is checking this username
password valid or not with the help of database now because already I have login details in the database. So the my
my program is contacting the database or database this username password available in your table or not check and
let me know database sorry this fellow is not available I'm a terrorist wait one minute okay and then now immediately
coming back and throwing error hello invalid username and password everyone
apply the project got clarity practical exposure on the project so tell me what is full stack development developing
this full project is nothing but full stack devel development you has to create this HTML form. You only should
create background program. You only should create background database table. You only should create the connection
but from this HTML page to program to database. That entire connection entire
flow of execution. Who has to write all three parts of the code? Me only me and
you and me only. That's why we are called what? Full stack developer. Understood. Olden days. Three four years
back and before corona after corona life is changed and generally olden days we say before Christ after Christ
something we say like that now for your generation what is the statement the standards what before corona after
corona before corona the is cost cutting is not there in the companies we have
three teams are there in company number one Java team number two database team
number three web design team web pages team web supportives okay web supporters will be there so that means HTML pages
developers separately will be there Java developers are separately will be there and then database developers are
separately will be there are you following but after corona companies are
entered into lot of price crisis money crisis so they decided let me find a candidate who knows all the three then
how can I tell do you know all the three do you know all the three the question is wrong now that's why they invented one new word called what are Fullstack
development. Do you know fullstack development? Fullstack development means what sir? I know only Java. Only Java
get out only Python get out. Only net get out. Uh I know full stack then come.
Do you understand now the meaning of fullstack? Now full stack means three parts. If you able to develop all the
three parts then you are having a red carpet to enter into IT industry either for interview or for the job. Okay. Next
among these three listen carefully among these three among these three observe
here the first part is developed by using fixed HTML why is breaking baba today
hello really why is breaking
hello mic testing
Just now previous class happened that time is not breaking
now. Clear. Sometimes going sometime coming.
Okay. Okay. And now look at here. HTML
for developing this forms and reports you have to know the course called HTML,
CSS, JavaScript,
JavaScript, Bootstrap Olden days people learn angular now
wrangler angular jamana gone react you can call it as react or you can call it
as what reactjs I want to call it as react observe HTML CSS JavaScript are
the base topic okay these are the base topics HTML
JavaScript CSS are the base topic on this CSS We have the concept called what
bootstrap. Bootstrap is a API and also we have something called jQuery and we
have what react. So HTML, CSS, JavaScript are the base. On top of the
base frameworks are there what known as frameworks. Bootstrap is the framework
of CSS. jQuery and React are the API for the JavaScript. And if you use HTML,
CSS, JavaScript, everything you only has to write from zero to 100 lines everything you only has to write. If I
use Bootstrap, jQuery, React, you no need to write already made things are available directly. Go and buy. Suppose
if you take uh uh in your you are staying in your own room uh you have to
prepare tiffen by your own, food, lunch by your own, snacks by your own, dinner
by your own. Then in a most of the time you are spending on cooking only not studying right that's why what you
decided you want to join in a hostel where I will get readym made food I am
not thinking about my food somebody is preparing for me then by 1:00 I'm going to host directly accessing the food and
eating am I working or not working not working so here preparing food everything by your own is called what
HTML CSS JavaScript are you following uh Now already ready made food curry shops
are there, hostels are there. That is nothing but bootstrap, jQuery, react nothing but frameworks or API. Everyone
got clarity what is the meaning of framework or API? And tell me in company what people are looking for basic
knowledge developers are frameworks knowledge developers. Frameworks knowledge if you know basic
knowledge everything you got right in the company is a company is spending that many years of the time to complete
the project. No, we want fast development. Fast development means what I should use frameworks. Okay. Next
point tell me now as part of Java programming we should use one programming language.
You must use one programming language and this programming language based
frameworks. And this programming language based frameworks you have to use. Okay. Next. Now if you come to
database end we have several databases Oracle database uh basically let me say
you should learn SQL and PL/ by SQL
okay SQL and PL/ by SQL you have to okay now observe sir I want you come to one
conclusion let's see how many people can answer this conclusion simple conclusion observe I have first course is what you
have to learn for developing UI HTML CSS, JavaScript you have to learn. Okay.
Now point number one and later you are going on frameworks. Okay. Then next. Now the database side which course you
have to learn SQL and PL/SQL. Okay. Now uh now the middleware if you come to the
story you have to learn one programming language and frameworks. Okay. Tell me
biryani is the same or not? Chicken biryani, mutton biryani, veggie
biryani. But biryani is what? Same what ingredient you are adding vegetables I
added then what you call veg biryani uh chicken I have added what you call chicken biryani mutton you have added
what you call mutton biryani the biryani is nothing but full stack
ada understood biryani is nothing but what full stack tell me now full stack
full stack means what UI full stack means what database and middle what is
changing program Full stack developer means fullstack developer can develop.
Now in the middle I'm adding Java. Uh you are a full stack Java developer
means what programming you are using? Java programming you are using. Next
fullstack Python come on come on. Full stack Python means programming language
what you are using? Python. Here programming language place what you are using? Python. Huh? Next fullstackn net
developer. Uh fullstack.net developer means what is changing? UI change. No
database change. No. What is changing? Program in place of Java in place of Python you are using what?NET. Uh last
last one more is there fullstack UI developer. Fullstack UI developer means
in the programming language you are using UI based programming NodeJS. What
you are using NodeJS. So in the programming language you use Java then you are called what fullstack Java
developer you use Python you are called what fullstack Python developer you have used whatn net you are called what
fullstacknet developer you use NodeJS then you call what fullstack NodeJS
developer everyone got clarity these are the daily terminology you are using in the company so you should have that
clarity now tell me sir the last important point how many times you are a
Java developer you are either you are a Java developer or you are a Python developer.
You are a Java developer or a Python developer or net developer or UI
developer for all you people. For all you people, what is common? HTML. Uh
HTML UI development is common. SQL PL/SQL is development is common. What is
changing? Programming only change. Can I expect everyone got clarity? So uh who
are you? You are a full stack developer. Which language you have chosen? Java. Uh that
room who was chosen.NET. Some other top floor students who chosen what? Python.
But ultimately all people are what say I am fullstack developer. Which language
you know Java then fullstack Java developer. Then now the question sir why I should choose fullstack Java? Why not
Python? Why not net? If I choose Java what the advantage? If I choose Python, what is the disadvantage? What is the
problem? Or if I choose Python, what is the advantage? You choose Java, what the advantage that points I'll discuss
tomorrow class. Hey, today class not completed. Okay. So, difference between Java, Python, net I will give clarity in
tomorrow class. Today I'm not going to enter into the more details. Okay. Uh every student, every student must learn
Java, Python. Every student you choose Java then master Java learn Python. You choose
fullstack Python, master Python, learn core Java not full Java, core Java only
core Java. So you should have minimum two languages knowledge in the market to become as a developer. Number one Java
full Java plus Python or full Python plus core Java. Not full Java only core
Java. So minimum two languages you have to learn. Why you should learn two languages? That is also clarity I should
give in tomorrow class. Clear my point. So today my focus is only giving you clarity on what is the meaning of
fullstack Java. What is the meaning of fullstack developer? What the meaning? Why fullstack developer? What the
meaning of fullstack Java or Python orn net or UI developer. That is the clarity I want to give. And then what are the
different courses you have to learn for all developers? Which courses are common which are changing? This clarity I want
to give. Did you all got some some idea on this? This is the first today. First today only. Don't expect too much
understanding awareness. Okay. I started my journey. What are all I have to
learn? Why I need to learn? If I don't learn this, where is the problem? If I learn this, what is the advantage? Is it
easy for me to learn or difficulty for me learn? You should come to some conclusions by end of first class.
That's what my target of today class. Clear? Uh please write down these points quickly.
You have already written these three points. Now we have three parts. UI, programming, database. Uh please write
down this diagram. Only write down this diagram. Don't
write down parts.
Today class is core Java class only. Full stack Java starts with what? Core
Java. Don't have confusions unnecessary. Today class is core Java fullstack Java
with starts with core Java. You are a fullstack Java developer or core Java
developer you should have knowledge on these points.
If you have issue with the timing every month I will start new batch. One batch in evening one batch in morning. Now I
started morning. Next month, first week I will start evening. You can choose evening batch.
Wait for more 20 days. New batch will come 6 p.m.
Please write down this diagram guys. Is it visible? Right. Last student visible. H write down this diagram. Who is this
fellow? And user add that statement also. End user.
Yeah. The next batch is 6 p.m. March 1st first week 6 p.m.
What will in upcoming days I'll tell you why one by point by point why you are
that much hurry as if today is the last day you are asking questions.
February 5th what's today schedule you're asking this is what this diagram clarity I want to give and uh course
duration and all the details I want to tell
online students have so many questions here huh
okay writing diagram are already completed
but if completed let me know I'll go next point Okay. And when I'm explaining don't write notes, it's a confusion to
me to you. Okay. When I say write notes, write notes. Otherwise, listen,
the course cover the same content that you cover in normal core Java course or it is a fast pace course. No may
I will cover regular course. Earlier core Java is separate. Now I'm part of
fullstack Java. That's it. There is no difference from previous and no.
And course will be completed in 3 months under uh exactly 3 months strictly 3
months with full syllabus.
Somia admin will tell you about placements. I'm not aware of that.
Okay. Here I am teaching from basics only. Is did I develop project or I'm teaching architecture? Architecture
means what? Basics only. Now
full stack Java is a 6 months course. Core Java is not 6 months course. Okay.
Core Java is 3 months course. H have patency. I'll tell you all. Okay.
Uh try on guys. First point right as part of UI write
10.1
as part of UI we will develop
As part of UI we will develop H what? Forms and reports.
forms and reports.
Uh forms are used for
palms are used for reading input.
Forms are used for reading input from user and submitting to
submitting to backend programs and database.
Next bullet point. Reports are used for Reports are used for
Reports are used for uh for what purpose?
Displaying. Displaying result or response.
Displaying result or response to the end user.
displaying result or response to end user pa that is the first point and one
point under the sub bullet points okay I have written three bullet points one bullet point first point as part of UI
under the two points okay next come to the main bullet point as part of programming
as part of programming As part of programming,
we will learn. We will learn
one programming language.
We will learn one programming language with its frameworks.
One programming language with its frameworks to develop programs.
To develop programs to perform
to perform validations. To perform validations
and calculations. to perform validations and calculations.
To perform validations, calculations to generate results.
To generate results.
Uh tomorrow when you come to the class, can you tell these sentences?
Will you write today class not completed? Don't close your notes. Okay. Class will be completed at what time?
11. Class timing is 9:10 to 11 is our class timing. Hope all the people know.
Okay. In the middle when I say tomorrow class. Oh, today class completed. Don't feel. Okay. When I want to tell
something warn you, I will use the word tomorrow. Huh? When you come back to tomorrow class, can I expect all these
points you remember repeat in the class? Really? Will you feel it is a college
tomorrow exam until today only I will study. Hey the golden days are over.
Okay, today topics we are using in tomorrow. Tomorrow discussion is
depending on today class. So that's why everyday explanation notes everything
you have to by heart remember and come next class so that you can repeat next.
Can I conduct exams every day? No exam.
Oh no. Exam means is it meant for finding you are studying or not
punishing? Is it a college school? No. Exam is for assessing yourself.
How much you understand? How much you not understand? Where you are? Where is your friend? So just to know you
yourself. I want to conduct exam. Is it okay? Exam will be on only today
discussion. Tomorrow I will give you one Google form to all the students online Google form. Okay. You can access on all
people are having mobiles. No smart mobile iPhone 15 uh uh right all people
are smart mobile all people are having mobile data. Right. You can access small simple Google form with around 10
questions. I'll prepare around five to six minutes we will spend the time for answering those questions. First you
give your answers, submit your answers and you'll come to know how many wrong option I mean wrong answers you give,
right answers you give. Then I will do revision and go for the new topic. This is our daily schedule. Is it okay?
So that next day you will come to the class with some motivation. I have to give answers now and what you learn
yesterday today you will understand. People who missed yesterday class next class they will also get revision.
Is it clear? I'm taking very serious about your batch. Okay. Huh. So
initially previous batches I have 19 years of experience. Oh lacks of students I trained but I never conduct
exams in the classes because students are studying at home and coming next class. But slowly slowly observe you
people are addicted to social media. Free time is found open Instagram single
finger more. Okay. Now that real this real only spending time there only. Huh?
Uh, so what I decided I want to come with you wherever you go.
You will find my shots. You will find my res in Instagram. You open Instagram, I'll say hi. You open YouTube shots, I
will say hello. Okay. You go to Twitter, there also I will say hi. Wherever you
go, you are going to get my short videos of explanation on the Java content. If
you are that much addicted to social media no problem be on social media not
on waste content be on some Java content knowledge content so whatever the notes
I'm dictating you must by heart and remember the points and next day you have to participate in the exam and you
yourself test I'm not going to say how many marks you got how I don't say okay this is the first you know top or he is
a lower I don't say and next if you are doing everyday top uh in our nar we have
placements. Okay. And there are two types of placements. People who are join the
placement batch they got the placement. People who are not join the placement batch normal training you join then from
you from this batch good performing people high performing people we are selecting out and sending for the
companies. So if you daily studying the notes what we are giving here and performing well I'm going to make a note
who is the topper every day like in every exam who is the topper I will track your record and I will not
disclose that record to any of your friends here. So he's the topper, he's the not performing well, I will never
disclose because I don't want to create that hype in the hype in the classroom or no problem sir you show me the
leaderboard and I will show you in the class okay out of these 500 students who is performing well not performing well
if you want I can show you also that's up to you okay and but I will have my own track record excel file I will
maintain who is daily performing top he will going to get direct placements
okay now this is promise from said I will fight with management. If management saying that no they have to
join placement no problem my students have special treatment in nari really okay I have special treatment nar
I will fight with the management nar is studentfriendly institute student fab
institute full stack Java fees what we are charging what outside institute
charging how much hours we are spending how much resources lab time we are providing online lab we are providing
and next for your batch Almost the platform is ready. We are preparing one
special software like hacker rank lead code some special set of questions we are making ready for your batch. Once
today class completed on today class you are going to get several questions for practice.
You don't waste your free time on unnecessary YouTube and social media. Naresa is always thinking about your
career because your success is our success. The institute and faculties get
the success only based on your success. Now so we should engage the student after class also we should engage the
student in learning only. So after class if you leave you then you
will spend the time with your friends or spend the time with the social media and wasting your time successfully either by
sleeping but if you are tracking your success if you are giving by seeing your friends success you will also get
motivated one day let me also study my friends are giving answers my friends are answering every question if I study
I will also get because my friend me both are started at same time my friend is there I am still here that guilty
feeling will start now so that's Why we decided I personally decided I want to
conduct exam every day first five to 10 minutes I will share the Google form link you have to start work on it you
have to give answers just I uh some one or two questions maybe typing questions answers questions will be there okay one
or two questions will be object to round questions will be there understand filling the blanks questions will be
there and also object to round questions also will be there choose options also will be there so that parallelly along
with the Of course you are ready for the interviews also. Huh? How to think in the interview to answer the question
that training also you will get. And filling the blanks means what? You are speaking while typing you are speaking.
No, when you're speaking, you can also tell the second round to the interviewer. Uh what is project
architecture? Every project contain three parts. One is UI part, programming part and database. What is there in the
UI part? Forms and reports. Uh what form is doing? Submitting the data. What report is doing? Displaying the output
generated by back end program. So this terminology will be habituated
slowly slowly by end of our course completed you will have full confidence to attend interview and pass interviews
isn't it shall I implement this schedule in your
batch last batch students say that don't waste my time by conducting exam
complete course fast first fast finally their life also completed fast so if you all support me I'm ready for
that okay now right now no continuation write notes
and programming completed. Uh as part of that first validation means first sub
bullet point subullet point validation means validation means
verifying verifying given input
given input values
correct or wrong.
Even input values are correct or wrong. Please stop. If wrong,
if wrong. If wrong, throw
error. Throw error. Error.
throw error. If correct,
if correct, perform calculations. If correct, perform calculations.
If correct, perform calculations.
Second bullet point. Second sub bullet point. Calculations means
Calculations means Calculations means
performing arithmetic operations.
Performing arithmetic operations. Do you know what the meaning of arithmetic operations? Addition, subtraction,
multiplication, division. In bracket write down a S MD
arithmetic adding, subtracting, multiplication, division, arithmetic
operations for generating result.
For generating result, generating result.
Calculations means performing arithmetic operations for generating result. Pull
stop. So repeat once again along with me. UI contains how many parts?
Two parts. Forms and reports. Forms are used for submitting reading input from
the user and submitting to the project. Uh next reports are used for collecting
the output and display the result or response to the end user. Uh second
programming has how many parts? Two parts controller sorry validations and
calculations you know project means project terminology coming okay that validations are called what controller
calculations is called what service okay that terminology coming okay no problem what is that um validations and
calculation as I told you now first I will start from college level basics
college level once you college level points understood then I will take you to what project level project level
terminal little difference will be there okay Now fine. So validations and calculation. Validations means what?
Checking given input values are correct or wrong. Wrong throw error. Correct.
Perform calculations. What the meaning of calculations? Performing arithmetic operations to generate result.
That's it. Clear my point? Huh? Let me ask you a question. Huh? Let me ask a question. Uh you are doing from the
bank. Bank portal will be there. You log into bank. you want to transfer money to your friend. Okay. Then you open IMPS
form. In that IMPS form you entered your friend uh your friend account number and
you have entered your uh uh IFSC code. All right. And then down you are
entering what the amount to transfer to your friend. Then tell me once you enter your money there what is happening? The
money is there in your account or not checking or not? For example, your account has a 500
rupees but you are trying to transfer 5,000 rupees. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Then tell me background the
program that that transfer money is called what form in the form you enter the data. Click on submit button
transfer. The background program is verifying the amount is available in your balance are not checking. Now found
it is wrong. Then immediately you're getting error message insufficient funds.
Connecting a live example I'm explaining right. uh then if if at all 5,000 rupees
is there then doing calculation calculation means what I told arithmetic operation what the arithmetic operation
adding and subtracting and tell me adding subtraction is nothing but from your account adding or subtracting
subtracting 500 is subtracting from your account and the 500 is adding to your
friend so tell me Java or programming is nothing but simple mathematics addition
subtraction multiplications If you know addition, subtraction, multiplication, can you come into the programming world?
Happily, easily. If you understand what I am talking my simple English and simple mathematic operation, you can
come into full stack world my course. So no need of any prerequisite, no
prerequisites are there to join my course. Simple points are required. Just a simple English and simple what do you
call mathematical operations if you know you can join the course. Clear my point? Uh the next point right database
as part of database as part of database
as part of database we will have
we will have tables we will have tables
for performing
Now listen. C R U D capital letters for performing C R U D all are capital
letters. C R U D crude operations for performing crude operations.
Crude. C R U D. Crude oil is you know crude oil. Okay. Like that crude
operations. What the meaning of crude? Uh listen I will give you class timing is 9:00 a.m. to 11 a.m. C
stands for write on down C stands for
create. C stands for create
more 5 minutes please wait. Create. Create means insert.
R stands for read.
R stands for read.
Read. Read means database terminology. Select.
What happened? Where it is going? Select. U stands for update.
Database technology is also update.
Uh can you guess what is D stands for? Delete. Database technology is also delete.
database is also delete. Okay. Now guys,
uh down. So database is meant for download. So database is meant for
database is meant for storing data permanently.
Database is meant for storing data permanently.
Database is meant for me entring data
permanently and further and further up uh read and further read
update and delete the data. Further read, update
and delete data
as per as per end user request.
As per end user request. As per end user request. Uh let me ask a
question. Tell me buddy uh you created Gmail account or Facebook account or
some account you created. Creating account in a website is nothing but insert operation.
After that you log in uh when you log in the enter password you are typing. Now
that means what? Reading. After few days website is forcing you to change password. No. Uh when you want to change
password what are you doing? Update. uh once you log into the website like Facebook or Instagram some posts you
don't like you want to delete them then what operation you're performing delete so on a database from a website you
perform how many operations four insert select update delete four operations you
perform everyone understand right so what is my target in today class my target is just making you know what is
the meaning of fullstack development why fullstack development is the trending on demand course in the market. What is the
meaning of fullstack Java development? What the meaning of fullstacknet development, UI development, Python
development? Okay, why that word is there? And next, what are the different courses you have to learn as part of
this fullstack development? Only people got clarity? Nice. Now, let me tell you the duration of fullstack Java. Tomorrow
anyways, I'll dictate the notes of remaining points. Don't worry. Uh the duration of fullstack Java will be 6 to
7 months will be there. Okay. Now, so 6 to 7 months will be there. In the in this session, I am
responsible to teach you core Java. The first course as part of programming, you
have to start with what? Programming. Always you have to start with what? Heart. Yes or no? The heart of the
project is what? Core Java. So, first we are trying to learn how to write a program, how to perform validation, how
to perform calculation. That is a part of what core Java. So I will start core Java from the very very very basic hello
world program to up to the project development. Everything I will cover. Don't worry about it. Leave it to me. I
will take care of it. I am not just a Java trainer. I am a project developer. I am a Oracle certified developer. I
know what is how to teach. I know what is there in Java. I know what are the
important syntaxes to to pass the interview. I know which concept used in the project how they are connected
everything zero to 100% everything I know just you believe me and follow me
it's more than enough just leave it to me I will take care of it and placements and all leave it to nar they will take
care of it what you have to do sincerely the coming six months you have to follow
us what we are telling that's it accept this don't think anything happily time
to time eat and study three things You have to do first
eat very important. Second sleep more important then third study.
After these three works completed still you have free time then think about social media.
Now the priority have to change. First priority is what actually social media.
Up to now social media and after that eating. If you find this time what?
Sleeping never study but now the timings are priority has to change. First priority is eating hast food not tasty
sir close your nose and eat. If you smell it you feel eat or not eat. Okay
first priority eating fully eat. Then if you feel sleepy sleep sir after coming
to class also sleeping. No problem sleep. In the class also you are allowed to sleep. Even though you are sleeping
how to put the subject in your brain I know. Don't worry. First priority eating. Second priority sleeping. Third
priority is studying. Still if you find a free time then only social media. Avoid social media as much as possible.
Your life is going to change. Just 6 months. Give your time to us. We will we
will shape you as a full-fledged working experienced employee and once you go to
company you no need to take help of anybody. You no need to get any special training. Directly you can get job.
Directly you can work in the company. Believers success is yours and your
success is our success. So we are working for our
success. Are you helping us to get the success? All are ready here. So all
people are comfortable with the today class. Everybody got clarity on we are on the correct track of entering into
software industry. We are going to company not to teach Java. We are going to company for
developing projects. So what is our full stack Java training? Is it concept
definition based amate based or project oriented? Uh open first page.
Open first page. What did you write? First page fullstack
Java development. Huh? On top you write project oriented fullstack Java
development. Is it just a fullstack Java? No. HK
means project oriented. Hey, who is HK? Har Krishna shortcut HK okay project
oriented add the tag on top project oriented fullstack Java development this
is what we are learning so hope we are on the track today we got clarity on the most important project architecture how
many parts are there how these project all these three parts are working together okay now so tomorrow all the
people will be active in the class to reply I will ask questions only from these points and tomorrow you have to uh
you have to uh under exam one Google form I will share with the 10 questions you have to answer all the 10 questions
I will ask all the 10 questions from this discussion notes only clearer uh can I dictate the notes in the class
okay now or you feel what telling notes uploader uploader dictator both
uh both no I will dictate the note notes also upload the notes but not
immediately okay now so when I feel you are on the track properly studying then only I'll upload the notes okay don't
worry I am not only trainer I am also book writer I have written a
full-fledged textbook of thousand plus pages
okay now I am I am a trainer developer certified Oracle certified developer
plus book author. I have written my own textbook on core Java which covers
everything required to understand Java, write the programs, pass interview, develop projects, everything I have
written. Okay, let me show you the book also for you guys so that you will feel
it. Okay, this is the book online students can you see?
I will share nana don't worry everything I'll share. Okay. Uh this is
the book. Can you see? Core Java. Core Java. Uh Core Java with project
development including OCJD. Okay. Totally how many books are there? Three books. More two books are coming.
Okay. Now three books already there. More two books are coming. So logical programming books are coming. So more
two books are coming. And data structures and algorithm book is coming. So lot of books I'm going to write for
you. Coming days you are going to see lot. And next earlier my core Java course is little delaying four months
like that because of uh you know some lenience or whatever. Uh now I have prepared a syllabus structurally okay 3
months strictly core Java I will complete in 3 months. Don't expect core Java less than 3 months because it is
complete knowledge. If you want to be a developer core Java is the most important. I prepared day by schedule
weekly schedule. Week one, week two, week three uh three papers I prepared. Okay. Now three papers uh three papers
three months clear and today day one first topic introduction to full stack ch fullstack
Java development and courses completed courses what are the courses you have to
do just I need to give the list only that's it so tomorrow I'm going to give you the list so today our target is
understanding fullstack Java development and courses that is the first day completed tomorrow we are going to
understand what is Java why Java Java Java is a platform dependent uh platform
independent programming language. What the meaning of platform dependent? What the meaning of platform independent? We
are entering into tomorrow into Java point because we are fullstack Java developer now. So we have to start Java
tomorrow. Is it clear? So everything I have prepared systematically
you can see here. So there is no jig, there is no confusion. Only thing is
implementation is pending strictly nicely. we are going to implement every day. So please study the notes I
dictated and come tomorrow. Tomorrow I will also share you Google classroom. You can add I can remind you by sharing
some more questions in the Google classroom everything. Okay. Now hope you enjoy today class. Are you comfortable
with my speed? Comfortable with my English? Posh English.
Okay. I am I am very poor in English. Nana some people are students are saying sir your English is very high. My
English very handy. Where is your English? Okay. Nice. So if you feel anytime
difficulty of anything, you can happily approach me. I am just like your friend.
Okay. Now don't treat me as your faculty. I'm just your friend. Whatever you have any problem, you can happily
approach me and share your problems to me. I can give you solution. Okay. Now don't prolong the problems for many
days. You feel one problem today, immediately clear that problem. Don't you know discuss with your friends a s
is teaching nice but dictating notes I don't like tell me I have to solve the problem okay s if upload the notes is
not good he has to dictate the notes tell to me I am your friend your friend is not your friend if you face any
problem with me directly come and talk to me this is my sincere request to all the students clear my point right thank
you all tomorrow you come to the classroom directly here don't go to office directly come here and we'll
start the class 9 10 and first five to 10 minutes we will conduct the exam.
Okay. Now on today discussed topics whatever the two pages notes I gave only the two pages notes exam only will be
there. Okay. Now right can I add some live real I mean some questions from the
different websites like in Amazon website how you added explain the steps
can I like that can I ask right so you also prepare with this notes some one or two websites you prepare and come. Okay,
thank you. That's all for today class. See you all tomorrow. Huh? Online students, if you have any
questions, you can ask. Offline students, you can leave. If you have don't have any questions.
Yeah. Shan Patel, tomorrow I will give you the course schedule. Which course is starting at what time? How to join?
Complete details. I will share you in tomorrow class. Okay.
All your doubts, duration, everything will be cleared by tomorrow.
Jak 100% you will get the job by learning this course. Don't worry
Deepak Sharma after 7 p.m. will not be there. 6 p.m. will be there. Other
faculty classes will be there. After 7:00 p.m. you can enquire in.
Okay. Thank you buddy.
Dip Kumar, how are you?
You can talk here only. Want me to unmute?
You can unmute and talk. Sir, uh sir, are you able to hear me,
sir? Yes. Yes, I can. My name is Yeah, my name is uh um Arti Rang Rajan. Sir, uh I just want I I just joined just
today, sir. I like your classes. I've been seeing your YouTube classes and I was very much inspired by learning uh
Java. So my question is um is the timing from 6:00 like uh 6:00 p.m.
No, this batch is Indian time 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Okay. Yes, sir. But I'm remote, sir. Like you
know uh Oh, okay. Okay. Your time is like 9:00 a.m. Uh ISTD time I'm talking IST.
Ah mine is PST sir. Okay. What is your time now? No it is for me 9:30 p.m. sir.
9:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. you have to spend the time. That's fine. I mean uh yeah that is okay
sir. Evening uh yeah evening uh that better works for me. My only question to
you is uh it it takes three months right now. I'm very much interested in learning Java. Sir,
ah core Java only core Java is three month core Java totally full Java is not 3 months
full stack Java is 6 months okay because I want to go into you know full development
full development so full development yeah yeah full development means you have to spend for 6 months only core Java will
take three months along with the core Java you have to attend other courses in the fullstack Java that details I will
tell you in tomorrow class by end of tomorrow yeah but but I'll go I'll go with this uh full stack development for you sir I
I like it you know the way you explained right end to end like fully right
it gives a much opportunity uh so can you just share the schedule sir so that you know
tomorrow I will I will share you the schedule okay complete what is the order you have to learn the courses okay uh
who are the faculties coming all details tomorrow class today so faculty wise sir faculty I want only
you sir uh no I will teach only core java Other courses either I will come based on my
timing or other faculties will come because fullstack Java is a full course uh one faculty cannot handle
but Java core Java you'll be explaining sir Java I will be teaching
I really enjoyed your previous YouTube uh you know and then that's how I got inspired to learn sir
you know it's very awesome a very nice class so thank you one more one more last question sir
before we So um what what was my question to you? Yes. Uh you would you be also helping us learn uh Java
certification? Yeah I my course will be targeting Java certification also. So but you have to
put some more efforts to uh to prepare for Java certification. My knowledge will help you to clear Java
certification too. Okay that's fine. And where can I get the book sir? Because I I'm remote
right? How can I get the remote? I will share soft copy now complete material I will share soft copy
don't worry sorry okay sir thank you so much sir and uh
today is just a first day you know don't worry yeah I know I feel like you know I want
to learn more you know your class is so inspiring so if you are that much you know hurry
you'll lose interest one day okay so don't be that much be
okay sir thank you so much you have to plan it and go according Don't be too much hurry. In a hurry,
you'll lose interest. Okay. Okay. Okay. And today whatever notes you
taught that is good, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's good. Okay, sir. Okay. Tomorrow I will come. And this is like
all the days, right? We also have from Monday to Sunday. Monday to Saturday.
Sunday is holiday. Monday. Okay. Okay. Sunday is my time. Monday. Okay, sir.
Six days. Six days uh week, not seven days a week.
Okay. Okay. And where is this location, sir? In Hyderabad. Amir.
Okay. You are from Hyderabad, right? I mean, you are from Amirat, right? Amir. Yes.
Okay. Okay. No worries, sir. I'll attend this class. I really like uh your you know, the way you're going so detailed
and um Yeah. Thank you. Okay guys, remaining online students,
can I answer your questions in tomorrow class because I have another class now. It's already 11:5.
I will answer all your questions tomorrow. By end of tomorrow class, all your doubts will be cleared. 100% will
be cleared. Okay? Just give me one more day. No recordings will not be there. So
you have to come live class every day. No recordings.
Okay guys, see you all tomorrow. Yeah. Mahes. What is the door
50% should be completed?
days. After 45 days, you cannot advance
Ashish Kumar I will answer all your questions in tomorrow. Okay. Now please
hold tomorrow I will answer all you people
questions. Now it's a time up. So it's already another students already came
RD Patel Fullstack Java please contact admin admin will tell you okay
please you people first concentrate on core Java don't think about other courses
first you start with core Java then going on either I am coming for advance
other faculty coming don't worry don't don't worry don't worry about it. Only focus now on core Java. Okay.
Thank you guys. See you tomorrow.

