ript


Uh right good morning everyone.
So last class we are try to understand the first topic of our fullstack Java
that is what is fullstack.
One second guys. Yeah, we understood our last class. What is full stack? How many layers are there
in a in the project? What type of programs are available in UI layer? What
are the operations we can perform in programming layer? And next, what are
the operations we perform in DB layer? DB means database, database layer. And
next, uh which layer is the most important in a project?
What is the meaning of fullstack Java development? What are the meaning of fullstack uh fullstack python
development? What are the meaning of fullstacknet development? What are the meaning of fullstack UI development? So
these are the 10 points we have discussed in last class. Hope you all remember. Online students please don't
click on raise hand button. If you have any questions, doubts please
post your questions in chat window. Okay.
Don't click on raise button. It's confusion to people. Okay.
Uh so tell me first point what is fullstack?
Uh is it complete project development? Yes. Is it end to end project?
Yes. Is it UI plus programming plus DB development? Yes. Then what is the answer? All of them. Super. Uh, next.
How many layers are there in the project? Three layers. Okay. Option number two.
Uh, what type of programs are available in UI? Forms and reports. Super. And next, what
are the operations we can perform in programming layer? Validations and calculations. Uh, nice.
Next, what are the operations we perform in DB layer? Rude operations. Uh C stands for create
uh read, update, delete. Create, read, update, delete. Create means insert.
Read means, select, update, update, delete, delete. Okay, super. Uh, which layer is most
important project? Programming layer is most important. Okay, next. What is the meaning of
fullstack Java development? What is the meaning of fullstack Java
development developing project by using Java language? Next, what the meaning of
fullstack Python development developing project by using Python. What is the
meaning of fullstacknet development using net language? Next, what the
meaning of fullstack UI development uh UI? Tell me what the meaning of fullstack Java developer a programmer a
developer who can develop project by using Java. Uh a developer who can develop project by using Python. A
developer who can develop project by using net. A developer who can develop by project by using UI is called uh it
called fullstack UI developer. So these are the 10 points I have explained in last class. So if you have missed
yesterday class don't worry. yesterday class video recorded video I
will share you end of the class you can watch that class clear my point so even
if you miss yesterday class there is nothing missing okay so yesterday class record video I will share you with that
video you can you can learn what happened yesterday class to today class
there is no link okay yesterday class is yesterday class today class is today class only you have to accept that point
in your brain tell me When you join in college beta college or MCA college are you going to college from the first day
itself they say never mother and father will see one fine day aspia say good day
mortam will be there from that day mortam only we will go and after going to college you will find there is a
ragging also uh after ragging fully completed then we will go right so there is a lot of things only if you accept it
I can do you can do otherwise you cannot do that okay uh now listen today we are
going to understand what are the different courses we have to do as part of what are the
different courses we must do as part of
fullstack Java and their purpose.
Each course purpose also we are trying to understand that is the first topic. Then we are entering into the main
course of our fullstack Java that is what? Core Java. As part of core Java,
we are understanding uh introduction to
introduction to Java. Okay. There are several chapters are there. So we are trying to understand first chapter
called introduction to Java. VR let's try to see what are the different courses we must learn as part of
fullstack Java. And next learning road map.
Learning road map duration. Fullstack Java complete duration. These are the three topics we are going to learn.
Following by core Java first chapter we will start introduction to Java. And tell mebody what are the different
courses we have to learn. Tell me we are learning fullstack Java for developing a
project only. Now uh as part of project how many layers are there? Three layers.
What the? The first layer UI. Second layer programming. Third layer database.
Okay. Among three layer what is the first layer? What the important layer? Programming.
Programming you want to learn by using which language in Java. What is the main course? Core Java.
Okay. Core Java. Uh then once you learn core Java, can you develop programs
validations and calculations? Yes. As part of validations and calculations,
you require some input to perform validations and calculations. That input
we are sending from where? UI. That UI is nothing but HTML,
CSS, JavaScript
and Bootstrap. Okay. uh HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
Bootstrap. This is one course. Okay. By using this course, you are developing UI
screens, HTML forms and reports you can develop. Then tell me the forms and reports. Whatever the data is collected,
the data we are giving to whom now? Core Java. Now the core Java have performed validations and calculation and further
it has to store the data inside database. So what is the next course? We have to learn database. Database means
SQL, ESQL, PL/ by SQL. Now tell me what
the meaning of PL/ bySQL. SQL full form is what? Structured query language. What the full
form of PL by SQL? Uh people are having confusion. People
are feeling procedural. It's not procedural. It is a programming language.
Programming language by SQL. Programming language or procedure language.
programming language by SQL. Okay, let us try to check in Google what is the full form. Let's confirm with the Google
help. Google tell me what is the PL/SQL full form
procedure language extension to structured query language. Okay. Uh SQL
is the what is the full form of PL? PL stands for what? Programming language or
procedural language. Procedural language not programming language. Okay. Some
people are confusing here. Some people say programming language. Some people say procedural language. Okay. Some
other people say some other language. So what the full form? Procedural language extension to structured query language.
We are writing procedures. Okay. We are writing procedures for combining all the
queries. That's why it is named as what? Procedural language. Okay. Then uh next third course what you have to do HTML,
CSS, JavaScript. Everyone understand? Let me quickly write a diagram.
Now what are you doing now? First you are going to write programs. Okay. First
you are writing programs. This is programming layer.
As part of programming layer what you are using core Java.
Core Java. By using core Java you are developing validations and calculations.
Okay. By using validations and calculations you develop the project. Okay. Okay, it's ready to perform
project operations. Okay, done. Then next, if you want to perform operations,
I need inputs. Okay, that inputs we are taking from where now? UI screens. From
the UI screens, you are taking this is UI. Uh here in the UA you have what?
Forms and reports.
We have forms and reports. From the forms we are giving input to core Java.
We are giving input to core Java. Then core Java is trying to do required
number of validations and calculation generate result. That result I want to
store inside database. For storing data inside database we need what database
software. We need a language called what? SQL and PL/SQL.
All your doubts whatever you have asked yesterday online students every all your
doubts will be cleared in today class. So please pay attention and focus database.
Uh tell me which database you are learning. Oracle
database is what? Oracle. Oracle, SQL, PL/ by SQL, one language, one
programming language to another programming language, the database will be changed. For Java people, what is the
database? Oracle. For Python people, database is
MySQL. For .NET people, database is
SQL server. Okay. So for language per language to language the database
backend database will be changed for Java people database is what Oracle uh
now tell me UI what the language we are using here
uh HTML CSS JavaScript
uh Bootstrap
HTML JavaScript CSS and Bootstrap Okay. Uh now
react will come one second
by by combining all these three we are calling what body project up to now
understand okay there is a small doubt yesterday I have used some terminology called front end and back end This UI
part is called what? Front end. This programming and database together is called what? Back end. Okay, everyone
answer. The project you are developing is standalone project or is it a web
project? Web project. What the meaning of standalone project? What the meaning of web project? I have one project I
installed in one computer that can be accessible only from that computer only.
For example, I installed my project in my computer. Then if you want to access
that project, I have to come to this computer. This computer keyboard and mouse we have to use from your computer
keyboard and mouse. Can you access the project available in my computer? No. Then we call it as what? Standalone
project. Everyone should reply. What do you have to call? Reply. Reply. Otherwise you cannot
understand Java. Okay. You are learning new language. Now language means vocabulary is there. That vocabulary you
will catch only by speaking. If you are only looking at me finally you will feel that very difficult. You want to make it
easy or difficult. It is in your hand. Don't speak inside. Don't behave like a
sutihasan. What was that movie? raise gor okay
speak outside so that you will get catch the language okay uh every word I am talking you should repeat along with me
in your LKG you are speaking for uh that's why till now you don't forget
cor
right standalone application internet or web application. So now we
entered from yesterday discussion today we have entered into two new terminology. We have two types of
projects running in the market. Number one standalone project. Number two internet or web project. Internet
application. How many kinds of applications? Two application. Number one standalone application. Number two
internet application. When I can say something is a standalone. When I can say something is a internet. I develop
one application. I install that application in my computer. Then that
application can be accessible only within that computer in which we install. Then we call it as what?
Standalone application. Suppose one game software I downloaded installed in my
computer. Can I access from other computer? No. No. Only within this computer only I can play it. Then I call
that game software as what? Standalone application. following. Now next suppose
I am taking antivirus. Antivirus I have downloaded installed in my computer. The
antivirus installed in my computer. Can I use it for scanning the virus available in another computer? No. Then
that antivirus is called what? Standalone application. Now tell me the cal available the calculator available
in my system. Is it standalone application or internet application? It is a standalone application. Come on,
open your mobile and access it. Possible or not possible? Huh? Possible.
Your calculator you can open. Right? When you open your mobile, when you open your laptop, there again you search for
calculator. That is your calculator. This is my calculator. Both are different. So they are called standalone
application. Only people tell me I open browser. I open browser. Tell me. Now this
browser software is standalone or internet.
Is it standalone or internet? What is internet? An application that can access internet
is called internet. That is wrong thought you have.
Again repeating if an application access internet is not internet
application you're in wrong impression an application that can be accessible
via internet is called what internet application browser I have open in your computer
open in my computer in my computer I have installed the browser in my
computer open browser nothing but Chrome In my computer
installed in my computer open in my computer then browser is standalone or internet
standalone not internet. If people are in a confusion okay ready one more point
in your mobile you install WhatsApp app now that is standalone internet but
super wonderful. No standalone again you confuse. Okay. Can I open your
WhatsApp app from my mobile? Yes sir.
Hey,
can I access your WhatsApp app? WhatsApp installed in your app mobile? Uh, come
on. Let me open. If I open If I open WhatsApp, whatsApp open? My
WhatsApp open. Huh? I can
credit come on tell me everyone everyone it's a confusion topic
really confusion I want give the clarity the WhatsApp Instagram app installed in
your mobile is a standalone or internet if you use your talent you will give
wrong answer you are here to use your brain train your brain then why you are using your
brain Stop using your brain. Follow me. What
statement I told you? Something is a standalone or internet is depending on
installing. You install your WhatsApp app, Instagram app in your mobile. Uh you have two
mobiles. Now your father mobile, your mobile or friend mobile there. Now take your friend mobile. Now come on. Take
your friend mobile. Open it. Uh try to access your WhatsApp app from his
mobile. Possible or not possible? Not possible. Hurry. Get confused. Why you have
confusion? Mama
confusion masters. Come out from your world into my world. HK programming
world. Okay. Uh come to my world. The apps you installed in your mobile are
standalone. Point number one. Okay. Point number two. No sir. I can access
internet now sir. Uh they sir I have stopped internet in my mobile I stop internet uh after stopping internet babu
online students okay after stopping internet now I open WhatsApp it's not
working sir what is not working messages are not working app work
understood confusion sir again repeating internet I stopped okay internet I
stopped there is no data connection no Wi-Fi no mobile data stop and tell me now this is my mobile okay now click
click click click WhatsApp okay open access
tell me it is internet standalone standalone
click open
app open or not but the posts are not opening
And what is internet here? App is internet or the background is internet.
Uh you are confusing front end you are feeling that internet. No front end is
not internet. Back end is what? Internet. Confusing. Clear. Okay. Now
tell me Instagram. My dear Instagram. One minute. Where are you? Another Instagram. Come on. Open.
Okay. I'm telling here these apps uh listen listen now this post I'm trying
to play will it play top 10 stocks to buy click on it is asking learn more
open not open and then the something I'm clicking it's open playing not playing why because there is no internet
connection now listen carefully I am adding the data okay connected to the
net now tell me who is internet front end is internet or back end is
Ah, it started playing. You're awesome.
No, I'm stopping again. I live 45 years before.
Okay, let me already download. Already download that.
Okay, let me close this and open again. Uh open
uh okay data company uh something okay uh 35 oops history questions okay so
finally got clarity so tell me how many parts are there in a project two parts front end and
front end and back end two parts are there uh all people are in a confusion that browser is feeling as what internet
no browser is standalone and this using This browser I am accessing the projects
available in the server computer. That server computer. What is that? Amazon is
called what? Internet. Ada understood a clarity coming. Uh a
project that is installed in the server computer via internet accessing from my
computer is called what? Internet application. Uh next I am taking flip
card. Flipkart is what? Internet. I'm taking bank HDFC bank HDFC bank it is
what internet uh tell me by using this standalone application I'm trying to
access what internet application so there are two types of applications are there in the market number one
standalone application and internet application this is the computer let me draw diagram for your better clarity
okay this is the one computer here I have instal I have one program here a
program or project is available this program or this project now I am trying
to access from another computer via network assume this is what network via
network I'm trying to access it not possible not possible then we call it as
what standalone application via network it is allowed to access uh then what we
call it as internet application everyone understand in simple Simple words let me
tell you if you download a program or project into your computer installed in
your computer accessing in your computer then that's all that is what application
stand alone a program we are accessing from the browser without downloading it
then what we call it as internet application uh tell me what type of applications are there in the market and
you are expecting standalone applications are internet application ations internet application. uh before
uh mobile recharge standalone internet mobile recharge mobile recharge you know
now uh maybe in your jamana after your journey started it is everything internet at my jamana time if I want
recharge my mobile I have to go to one shop recharge card I have to buy scratch
it one big number 16 number will come I have to type that number hash star number hash something and finally it is
recharged uh now tell me suppose there is a person have a lover are talking night time. Okay. Suddenly what do you
call balance is out? Tell me can he or she talk at night? Not possible. Then
next day what happened? Break up. Right. Mobile maintenance say you are
unable to do then how can I what do you call consider my life with the complete
next coming days. So that's why break up. So tell me nowadays break up or no break up? No break up. Instantly you can
recharge from the mobile. Huh? Uh tell me now. Phone pay is there? Phone pay is there standalone application or internet
application? Both Phone Pay app is standalone. Phone
pay project is internet understand right. Phone pay app is
standalone. Instagram app is standalone. Instagram project is internet. To access
that internet project I need standalone application. Clear my point? Now come to the point our current discussion tell me
what are the courses we have to learn to develop the project number one UI I have to develop for that HTML CSS JavaScript
bootstrap required I want to develop program for that what I required core Java I need I want to store data for
that what I required Oracle database okay by just learning these three courses is my project development
completed or not completed not completed this project will become
standalone application. Okay. Now this project become what? Standalone application. That means once
you develop project by using these three components my project become standalone means it cannot be accessed from
internet. Tell me can I have remote clients? No. Okay. If I install this one
in my shop computer all customers has to come to my shop only.
Okay. Now tell me I don't want customers come to my shop for example you take Amazon all the people are buying the
product by going to Amazon shop by sitting in your house sir how uh poor
Java is there database is there UI is there but there are no connections between them
are catching my point currently HTML to core Java I need one connection core
Java to database I need one connection so if the connections are not provided
between these three then your project become what? Standalone. How can we provide connections? The connections if
you provide then your project become what? Internet. What is that connection?
Advanced Java. What the connection? Advanced Java. Tell me if you don't
learn advanced Java course. Fourth course advanced Java AD Java we call
shortcut. If you don't learn advanced job uh your project become standalone
application or internet application will you have any client for your project? No. Nowadays every client
expanding his business throughout the world. He want to have a customers throughout the world. Isn't it? Recently
I joined in gym not for sixpack. Okay don't worry. Uh so the gym owner has asked me a question. Babu what are you
doing? I said okay I'm a Java trainer. Oh you are a Java trainer. Wow. Can you can you please help me? What help you
want? Okay, actually my gym all people are all my customers are people are
coming to gym. How many people are doing payment? How many people are pending? How much payments are done? This
tracking purpose I'm doing manual when I go my hometown I'm unable to track it. Can you develop a software for me?
Understood? and Jimu got the clarity on software but my dear B tech students you
are not getting clarity and what you understand here if you want
understand the software and software development you should have a knowledge on programming language of first
business idea you should have and I should do one business sir no don't do any business I
will give you business idea don't worry my point is you have to learn the programming languages from definition
point of view are from the business point of view. Business point of in business what are you doing? Then
implement that operation, second operation, third operation, fourth operation that way you have to learn. So
he is expecting standalone application development or internet application development. internet application even
he's there at home he wanted to access the all the payments happen in the shop and tell me is MKkesh Amani is going
every village every shop to find how much uh sales happen in the geo stores
no he's there in a Mumbai in his office and tracking all the payments and all the sales now uh it's all because of
which type of application standalone or internet application tell me in your
project if you don't include advanced Java your project become standalone application or internet application.
Standalone application tell me in advanced Java there are three parts are there JDBC serlet and JSP people are
calling it as a serlet jsp no serlet
what the technology name serlet it's not serlet if somebody pronouncing as serlet
don't use the word serlet you don't pronounce you pronounce it as serlet technology name is serlet uh technology
name is JSP technology name is JDBC people are having one S adding to all.
Oops. S is not there. It is whoop. Okay. JS, JDBC, serate, JSP. Okay. There is no
S. Huh. Now tell me now where advanced Java will be used here. Before core
Java, advanced Java is coming here as a connection. A pole
a tower. Okay. After core Java, one more connection. One more pole. One more
tower is coming. Ada understood. Uh tell me what is this poll? This is advanced
Java. ADB Java. What this advanced Java doing? It providing connection. Can I
shortcut? Okay, let me write fully otherwise you may confuse.
Advanced Java. What advanced Java? It contains what here? Serate and JS.
Okay. Serlet and JSP here what is there JDBC
uh buli what serlet and jsp is doing? Serlet and
jsp is providing the connection between uh serlet and jsp is providing
connection between html program and core java. Okay now repeat againlet and jsp
is providing connection between html and core java. Hello everyone. Uh end user
is giving input to whom? HTML. HTML giving that value to whom now?
Serlet advanced Java serlet. Then serate is giving that input to whom? Core Java.
Core Java receiving the inputs from the website directly. Now vir
data come to core Java. Then core Java giving that input to whom now? JDBC.
following then JDBC will store the data inside database understand so tell me if
I don't use advanced java selet and jsp from HTML pages can I take the data into
core java no if I don't have JDBC connection can core java store the data into the vrale database no so if you
want to develop fullf fridged project flowing the data from end user to
database then database to end user totally How many courses you have to do?
Four courses. What the four courses? HTML, core, Java, Oracle. These are the
main three pillars of the enter your fullstack Java. In addition to that, what you should also learn advanc.
Advanc you have to learn for what purpose? For creating the connection between UI to core Java and core Java to
database to make your project a standalone application or a UI uh standalone application, internet
application, internet application.
Okay, great. So now look at here UI programming and what database tell me the flow of end user to where we are
getting now UI uh UI to where control is coming advanced Java uh advanced Java to
where coming Java po Java to JDBC JDBC
to database a minute can advance Java talk to the database directly no because
what is the language of database Excellent here. Wonderful. What is the
language of database? SQL. So what is their background? SQL.
Okay. SQL uh JDBC to SQL. Uh then SQL to
database tables. Clear my point? Right. Let me remove this one here
and add paracle here.
Uh tell me inside database what is there? Tables.
First table, second table,
third table like this and number of tables will be there. understand the flow. Now uh now tell
many courses you have to learn as part of fullstack Java. Okay. Uh now just now people has given pmplate. Okay.
Yesterday I didn't tell the list of the courses now. So all students are in a confusion. What is happening? What why
you are having that much tension? All people went to outside admin in
fullstackle Java who will teach who is the faculty okay how many courses are there? Why that much hurry tension?
If you have that much attention life how can you live you know next coming 60 70 years
first day only you want to know everything after learning ah relax cool next do you know don't do anything okay
so actually yesterday we have only one and a half hour time in one and a half hour time if I list out all these
courses these are the courses available as of fullstack Java what will you understand and you want still in bihated
mode only my target is what first I want to tell the purpose what you are learning then I
want to introduce course yesterday I gave you agenda now open agenda yesterday
open agenda what the first point uh completed what the next point
that is completed uh what is next what are the different courses we need
to learn right I told you today I will explain what are the different courses we need to Yesterday what I explained project
architecture right uh without knowing project architecture courses listing is not a good idea from my point of view
because tell me after understanding project architecture when I'm listing courses your mind freely receiving the
uh HTML meant for UI what do you call Java meant for programming next Oracle
meant for SQL I mean Oracle meant for storing data SQL is there so in project
which course is belongs to which part you can easily Understand that is what my intention behind not giving the
courses list yesterday already agenda I gave you now then why you are confusion
don't have confusion huh so I'm not a pressure faculty this is not my first batch already told you 19 years
experience there what is required what is not required when to teach one point when to teach next point I know
everything systematically I have planned and if you have any doubt ask me not
admin don't know thing admin only know one thing ID checking
okay now change your mindset okay don't do mistakes whom to contact for if only
fee information ID card information is admin okay except these two any point
you have doubt in your mind come and talk to me who am I faculty
yesterday what I do I am your senior super senior I am your friend Right? If
I am faculty, I don't teach all this nonsense. It's out of syllabus.
This is out of syllabus. It's not part of our Java course that is related to
realtime project development different course. I am your senior, super senior,
mega senior, old world old senior. I learned Java in 2003 2004 and worked in
the company. So what is he required for you? what is not required for you that I am trying to put in front of you. Okay?
If you got any doubt in your mind directly ask me. Don't go and confuse the admin and don't give tension to the
admins. Okay. Now come and talk to me. I'll give clarity and have patency. In
one day this much you cannot you know your stomach cannot eat full fat full pack fat chicken biryani. Okay. So
slowly slowly day by day by day we will go. Okay. Now huh come on. So after seeing this diagram what you understand?
Okay. Is it fullstack Java means is it one course? No. Fullstack Java means what?
Multiple courses are there. Okay, done. Understood that point. What is the purpose of each course? Number one. What
the purpose of HTML course? It is meant for Huh? Come on. Come on. Tell me. It
is meant for developing UI forms and reports. Core Java and advanced Java
together is called what? Java. Core Java and advanc together is called Java. Uh
Java is meant for developing what programs for performing validations and calculations. Super. Uh next uh
database. Okay. Next one is what? Database. Oracle is what? Database. Oracle course SQL PL/SQL is meant for
creating tables, storing data permanently and reading data permanently. Next, if I don't learn
advanced Java, I learn only core Java. I learn only UI. I learn only var. I learn
only core Java. Just by learning these three courses, can I complete my project?
No. Yes sir, you can complete the project. HTML, core, Java, database. By
learning these three courses, you can complete project. But the project is what type of project? Standalone. Is a
standalone project is have sales in the market? No. Then tell me what is the
extracurricular activities you have to learn? Advanced Java. What is in advance over
there? Serlet and JSP. Now tell me and JSP is meant for making our application
internet accessible. Repeat once again. Serlet and JSP is meant for making our
application internet accessible. If I don't use serlet and jsp in our project
then what happened? Project become what? Standalone but not internet. Uh who is making our project as internet? HTML and
serent. If you don't use HTML and sur our project become standalone. If you use only core Java JDBC database our
project become standalone. Point is clear. Uh then now I have a question. If you learn only this much is my project
fully developed or not? Yes. Is this project can I have good sales in the market? Yes. But there is a problem. The
problem is it takes a lot of time for a development and building. Again
repeating my statement. If you use only core Java and advanced Java for
developing our project. If you use only HTML, advanc Java, core Java for
developing our project. Project development and packing will take lot of
time. So for fast development I need a lot of
readym made programs. That readym made programs are called what I told yesterday frameworks. So tell me this
project is redeveloped by using new concepts. This project is redeveloped by
using frameworks. So this first architecture is what technology based
architecture or advanced Java based architecture. If you learn advanced Java
only up to advanced Java you can develop the project but the project development become what? Slow. So we have to learn
frameworks based. What are the frameworks we are learning here? Please notice.
What the frameworks we are learning here? Uh let me take different color for your
clarity. Uh the frameworks you are learning in place of here you are learning React.
Okay. What the framework? React. Yeah. HTML. Continuation HTML, CSS, JavaScript
3, Bootstrap and UI place what? React. Uh in place of advanced Java core Java
you cannot replace sir. In place of advanced Java you are using spring boot.
Last topic sir please focus
what you are using spring boot. If you don't have this clarity, it's
very difficult for you to learn coming classes. What learning? Why you are learning? You
should have full clarity. Uh you are learning here spring boot. Okay. Next.
In place of JDBC, you are not learning JDBC. You are not using JDBC in the
company development. In place of JDBC, you are learning what is that? Hibernet.
Hibernet is also not using in the market. People are using
spring data. What people are using spring data. Olden day cyber is used.
But now spring data make more easy easier than hibernate. Uh so tell me
what are the changes we got? Uh tell me end user interacting with whom? Now react. React is giving data to whom?
Springboard. Spring Boot behind what is using core Java. Core Java behind what
is there? Hibernate or Spring Data. My database connections are very heavy database connections are there. Then
people are using hibernate. Less database connections, less transactions are there. Then people are using what? Spring data. Spring data and then Oracle
database SQL no change. Okay. So tell me advanced Java place what is coming?
Frameworks. Frameworks are giving fast development. So totally what are the
modules are there? Okay. Let me also write here uh advanced Java. And fifth
course what you have to learn frameworks frameworks. What the frameworks you have
to learn here? React
for uh HTML replacement react and JDBC serlet JSP replacement springboard.
Listen carefully. The world architecture advanced Java
based this architecture is technically called MVC. Architecture name is what bu
MVC. Uh this programming is called C controller. Database is called Model
and this UI is called C controller. Okay. MVC. This is called sorry this is
called V MVC model view controller. uh now the spring boot based architecture
is named as microervices what we call it as microservices
microervices uh so there are two architectures are there running in the market old
architecture is MVC MVC have several problems to overcome those problems
people have invented new architecture called what microervices so as part of
microservices uh microservices architecture in Java we are implementing by using what? Spring boot.
Understood? Uh tell me now which uh which topic make our project
development first advanced is our spring boot. Spring boot. Okay. Next point. Once you develop project suppose you you
are planning to go from your native place to some other place. Okay. Let's say you are going to some bijada or some
Chennai or Bangalore. Some place you want to go. In your house you have so many clothes are there. You wanted to
pack up the required things and go now uh packing purpose. If you alone only
working lot of time it will take then your mother and father is helping you for packing purpose. Now uh like that we
have small small softwares are there which will help us for fast
uh fast packing purpose. Once the project you develop you have to deliver this project to the customer. For a
delivering project to the customer I need small small softares are required have you heard these words log 4j please
no last chair people don't talk if you are talking other people get
disturbance now is it a common sense right yes or no what is the spect
correct you are a human no have common sense no you in the classroom and talking like lover bad idea here it's
not a park no you people are here for learning what I'm talking so please try
to listen if not listen sit silently okay don't disturb others now tell me there is something called
what lo 4j 4j okay these all nodes are new to you
okay maven
okay and grad okay and next g have you heard the
GitHub. Okay. And there is something called very popular now in the market.
Docker. Okay. Docker like this. There are
several tools. What we call them as tools. Spring boot is called what?
Framework. Okay. Spring boot is called framework and all these are called what?
Tools. Okay. Now everyone should participate now by using
UI technologies by using programming language and frameworks
database server frameworks and these tools we develop the project our project
is ready uh tell me now all you people are ready to listen I am ready to teach
but we need one classroom to run our class now uh what is that classroom to
run this project we need a concept called what server what that concept is
called server uh earlier we have inbuilt servers we have our own local servers
that local server jamana gone everybody using cloud server what server cloud
server what the cloud server AWS so if you say hello I am a fullstack
Java developer then tell me what are all you should know you should know three
modules. Okay. Totally how many modules you know? Three modules. Number one. Okay. Four modules you should know.
First module is Java module. Obviously, first module is Java module. As part of Java module, what are you learning? For
Java, advanced Java, Spring, Springboard. What is the architecture name?
Microservices. Come on everyone speak. How many courses you are learning as part of language? Java. Five. What the
five? Core Java, Advanced Java, Spring, Springboard, Microservices. Five courses
you are learning. Okay. Uh, next as part of database module, this is a middle module is what? Programming. As part of
programming, five courses. Uh, now database module, which database you are learning? Oracle. Oracle part what you
are learning administration of programming. Programming what the programming SQL and PL/SQL.
Okay. And next module is what? UI. Third model is UI module. As part of UI
module, what you are learning? Come on. HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React. Bootstrap
and what? React. HTML, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap or base. On top of base,
what the framework? React. React also you are learning. Uh next uh tell me by using programming module, database
module and then UI module. I develop project now. But after developing
project I should build that project means I should pack up that project and should deliver to the customer. Uh tell
me this project I am only developing everything or so many team members are there team members are there some part I
develop some other part developed other developer one more developer developing other part all these 10 developers
developed code I have to merge at one place that one place merging place is what github are you follow my point? Uh
so now I required some extra tools are there for building my project. Uh the
tools module there are several tools already listed here. Git, GitHub, Genkins, Docker, Data Dog, JUnit,
Mochito, JMeter, Maven, Gradel, Jira, Kuba, Sonar Cube, SL4J, Elk, Hioku,
Chef. Oh my god, so many. Okay,
I should learn all these things. Sir, what nonsense are you talking sir? My brain will be blasted sir. Correct. Uh
how much salary you want? Oh salary I want four lakhs per month.
Five lakhs per months subject you know byes and one or two
points you want to learn but salary you want more not possible. Okay. So all these tools list is big but these tools
learning is maximum 30 to 40 minutes and one tool will take 30 minutes small
softwares okay small small configurations uh very very very important and finally you are also
learning what cloud server AWS AWS is a full course but in fullstack Java AWS
full course you don't get AWS basics how much we require this project to run that
much AWS knowledge we will provide you as part Fullstack Java. So totally how many modules are there? Five modules.
First one is what? Java module. Second module is database module. Third module is UI module. Fourth module is Java.
What do you call dev sec op tools? Dev sec ops. Devonte development. SE means
what? Security. Ops means operation. Development. Security operations
required. Modules will be tools will be taught. And then AWS basics also will be taught. Is it clear everyone? Uh so I
hope already you got this pamplate. Already you have this pom plate. Yeah.
When you go to uh counselor I mean counseling this will be given to you. Maybe you pack up and throw it out
because it's not required for it's a silver. Okay. And online students already you have got my poster right. In
the poster already everything is mentioned. Okay. This is uh right. Okay.
Sorry. Let us go for this point here. Come on tell me let us make it as a different courses you learn how many
modules you're learning number one programming module
uh programming or what I can say Java module second one is what
database module shall we write come on continuation yesterday class different courses we must do right continuation
yesterday class how many pages yesterday you took two or
three Pages you tell sides you don't tell page
one page two pages including first page okay three pages front to back three
pages you leave people who are new student complete three pages front to back you leave and write continuation
different courses come on make it fast
different courses we must
We must do as part of
full stack Java. Different courses we must do as part of
fullstack Java. Uh full stack Java
development courses are
divided into five modules.
Five modules. One second, guys. Don't drive.
Uh first module programming or Java module.
Number one, core Java.
Number two, advanced Java.
Number three, Spring. Uh, what is the difference between
Spring Spring Boot? What the difference between Kickrad and auto start?
Kick rod is start spring. Auto start is spring boot and spring is everything
manual. Spring boot is everything automated. The same spring but it is
what? Automate. And next fifth one
microservices.
Microservices is a architecture. Okay. Uh next database
as part of database we are learning one course what is that Oracle SQL in
bracket right Oracle SQL comma PL by SQL
PL is programming language or procedural language procedure language don't confuse
and third UI module
MongoDB depends on the faculty spring boot faculty
MongoDB will be covered as part of spring boot but as a course you will learn Oracle Puja.
So spring boot to Oracle connection will be there spring boot to MySQL connection will be there and as a course you are
learning Oracle with this Oracle knowledge the same SQL PL/SQL will be used as part of spring boot with
different databases. So spring boot to I mean advanced Java spring boot to Oracle connection will be
shown MySQL connection will be shown postsql connection will be shown and
mango mongodb connection also will be shown that spring boot faculty will take care of it and next UI module
uh what are the coming in UI HTML CSS
JavaScript Bootstrap app
and react. I don't want to call it as JS. I want to call just react.
Or if you are like to write JS, write JS. ReactJS. No angular. Angular
don't learn Angular. Learn React. React is more powerful than Angular.
uh dev secop tools. Actually people are calling it as devops
tools. Okay. Now DevOps tools but under devops
there are so many other tools also there. More tools are there. Everything will not be covered here. Here only
development and security fullstack Java related tools will be covered. DevOps is again a full course big course. Uh here
you can write first starts with log 4j
log 4j comma sl 4j these two are one combination
log 4j comma sl 4j second
mian gradal Maven ma
me not ma m don't don't pronounce as maven it's not
ma tu hindi ma it is me spelling is ma but pronunciation is what
me do one thing after class completed open Google translator
and type it and ask it to pronounce you know pronunciation
audios will be there now pronounce you will find it uh then third see tools here I'm writing as a
combination okay here actually two but I'm giving only one number one because
these two comes under one category logging tools these two are called
logging tools if you write all those things you will confuse okay that's why more information I'm not giving and next
Third, Oracle is a database. SQL is a language
as part of Oracle. Krishna, you are learning Oracle database.
In Oracle database, SQL is a language. Uh next get GitHub.
Next step. Uh, JUnit
Z Jun Moto. Sorry. Any order you can
write. No problem. J unit moto zero
J meter.
Okay. Uh next fifth one. Jenkins.
Jenkins. Docker,
CHF, Kubernetes will not be covered. That will be DevOps tools.
Yeah, as part of fullstack Java, Kubernetes will not be there. Docker will be there.
And next uh sonar Q.
Seventh one pitch tools are there. Elk
Hioku data dog.
There is a dog always watching data.
This is the order I have written your faculty devops sec tools who are taking
that faculty may cover the order in other okay now this is just I preferred order if you learn in this order it will
be easy for you if different order is covering don't worry every tool is a independent tool there is no link don't
question that harisar has given this is the list order but you are covering another order just follow that faculty
whoever covered Next cloud server AWS
AWS basics only will be covered not full course
uh here dev secup tools can you also write here R Java
real time tools People are also calling it as some people also
calling it the Java realtime tools.
Huh? Tell me sir, all your doubts are cleared. Now what courses are covered? Uh now tell me
as selenium testing not required. You are using JUnit.
JUnit is our Java fullstack testing. Selenium testing will be done by
testers. That separate team will be there teaching a namaskarum sir. A will be the
difference. A is related to Python modules. H listen
sir. Core Java. Okay. in it programming module core Java here in bracket write
down HK
write on HK
okay now uh as part of fullstack Java this session is only belongs to what
core Java and I am going to handle only core Java sessions for Okay. Now
remaining all these courses whatever I am showing here these courses will be deal by other faculties
and best faculties only. You no need to have any doubt. Okay. Now all faculties are most experienced faculties and they
are also working employees. Okay. I will teach I will deal with only core Java.
Remaining courses will be deal by other faculties based on the core Java subject going on.
Other courses will be one by one will be launched and you will get message also in the class I will announce now you
have to join this course you have to join that course I will suggest you what faculty which course you are to join so
just blindly follow me enough okay so don't have any doubts I am such a
faculty I will give you full care career guidance so which course you are to join
what time and if you join course after some time or now what is the problem what the advantages everything I will
plan for you. Okay, just blindly follow me. When I say you join, blindly join.
When I say don't join, don't join. Uh I said join but still you are not joining.
Then that is your mistake. Later you should not blame us. Clear my point right? Uh then now tell me what is the
duration of this fullstack job? All these courses you must complete in 6 to
7 months. 6 plus months. 6 to 7.
Come on. Uh all these courses you have to complete. All these courses you have
to complete in 6 months. Okay. 6 months it will take. How is it
possible to complete in 6 months? Uh are you collegegoing student or college
completed student? College completed 9:00 and no college. I know uh morning to evening only.
Uh listen what is the order you have to complete these courses generally
students are going in a one wrong mindset you have to change how many hours college you are attending 8 hours
school 8 hours right from the beginning school college everything is what 8
hours full stack Java is also 8 hours
but you people are not ready for 8 hours happily wanted to sleep in the home only
2 hours will Come after 2 hours again he want to continue sleeping only. Uh yes sir I know
this is old student old harishna don't worry
I'll show you
okay pullstack Java course completion steps everyone please focus now go back
to your architecture once again in this architecture first you are learning this
is the first project level. Uh tell me in this architecture what courses are
independent courses no dependency to learn HTML do you have any prerequisite?
No HTML is HTML to learn core Java. Do you have any prerequisite? No. Core Java
is core Java. To learn database SQL PL/SQL is there any prerequisite? No.
Database is database. So first you have to start learning three courses at a
time. Okay, three courses you have to learn at a time. Core, Java, Oracle, HTML. All
three courses at a time you have to learn going on end.
So per day how many hours you are spending with Narish ID? 6 hours. Every course will be 2 hours. Core Java 9 to11
Oracle either before core Java or after core Java HTML evening session you have
two sessions morning one session evening don't have all three sessions at morning and evening
if you continuously 6 hours certain your mind will be blasted okay that's why in the middle 2 hours gap must be there and
in the two hours have some strong chai go to lab and practice it and come back to the next class clear my point two
courses morning one course in the evening or afternoon you should have. So three courses you are going on. How many
months it will take these three courses to complete? Three months. 3 months it will take for you to complete. For Java
3 months, VR 2 months, HTML 2 months. Okay. The maximum I'm saying 3 months. 3
months it will take. Then don't wait till all the three courses completed.
After 45 days completed until almost HTML comes to end. uh then after 3
months I mean 45 days completed means our object oriented programming completed in Oracle SQL completed in
HTML CSS JavaScript HTML completed then plan for advanced Java okay now CCRT let
me remove this not required confusion
tell me first what is there core Java var HTML in the middle after whoopsql
HTML completed you start your advanced Java. Everyone understand? Right? Then
advanced Java will go for 45 days to 2 months. Okay. That means Oracle HTML
almost comes to end you started advanced Java. Then core Java last chapters
advanced Java JDBC is going on. Then after JDBC by the end JDBC comes to the
end or sublet started core Java is also completed. Clear? Then how many courses
are running now? Only one course advanced Java. Then plan for frameworks.
Hibernet is not required nowadays. Let me remove this.
Hibernate is not required nowadays.
Huh.
Selenium is not required. Don't plan selenium. You want to become test engineer.
uh advanced Java then tell me in the middle of advanced Java after JDBC
completed or started then spring spring boot course you have to start in the
middle of springboard as a module XML web services rest API will be covered
this is a very important topic okay and the same faculty advanced Java spring
faculty will cover Java DevOps tools also as a batch are catching my point so
here you How to divide your courses like this? Observe now core Java variet HTML
JavaScript it will take how many months? 3 months.
Okay. And then uh advanced Java
you have to start attending three courses parallel. What is that? Advanced Java. In the middle of advanced Java you
start what? spring springboard and at the same time another time you are starting what Java tools also design
patterns Java tools so these are the this is the way you have to follow and it will take spring springboard will
take 3 to four months I don't say exactly 3 months around 3 to four months it will take totally uh 6 to 7 months it
will take clear my point full stack Java you take full stack Python you take full
stack UI you take any full stack course you take minimum 6 to 7 months it will take so don't expect fast fast to
complete or BT four years you waited right MCA 7 years you waited 3 years 6
years 3 years of what do you call BSc computers and then 3 years MCA so you
waited for four years of B tech six years of MCA then why can't you spend for 6 months for fullstack job or
fullstack learning it is now your life next coming fully is what your life hurry really fast fast if you learn and
then go go on the road and waiting for the opportunity. When you got opportunity, you will fail because you don't have proper skills. When you're
going for the war with a full-fledged skills, you have to go for fighting with the kala. Isn't it? Uh so fully you have
to learn and then go for inter you will get benefited more. Okay, this is the road map how you have to complete. All
the people got clarity. Please write down this diagram as this
road map. What do you write? Fullstack Java completion road map. Fullstack Java
completion road map. Fullstack Java
completion road map. Everyone should come to the class with a
notebook. Okay. Lot of practice we'll do. Don't come to the class just for like know uh time pass. It is your life.
It is your career. From tomorrow all the people should have notebooks in the class and sincerely you
have to study. Java is your life. Time pass you didn't join the course.
Take it serious. Okay.
Pay 3 month not 3 minutes or 3 months
to understand microervices. Okay. One second sir. I will add that point here.
One second.
To understand microservices you should learn here
XML web services, Jamona gone rest API JSON REST API microservices. This
AWS also will comes under. Okay. In place of Java tools better you write here this design patterns also remove
dev sec. Ops
Tools and AWS
Basics.
I So you have to sincerely follow this order. You have to spend in arit 8 hours
per day. Then your success is guaranteed. 100% your success is guaranteed. When there is no class,
don't go to room for sleeping. Go to your lab. 2 hours lab will be there. Okay. You can go to lab. Reliance fresh
building. When you go to main road, uh there is a sonobi temple. Temple is
there. Now next to the there is a one big building. Some construction is going on, some some modification going on in
that lane, first building, fifth floor. Okay. Now, so there you have lab. So you can go to lab also. Admin will guide you
to how to go to lab, when to go to lab. So 2 hours you can spend in the lab per day you can practice it. So 3 hours
course, 2 hours, 3 hours I mean uh 6 hours course and 2 hours practice. 8
hours you have to spend in the nariet only have to go to your hostel room eating purpose and night sleeping
purpose. That's it. Don't stay in a hostel. Don't waste your time. Spend in a mil paid you know with Narit with you
know hostels. Okay. Right. Hostel only for sleeping purpose. Remember uh completed
online students where you have lab?
Uh online lab also will be there. I will check with management and I'll give you
online link. Okay. You can also contact your online people for lab assistance
purpose. And I strongly recommend you should have your own laptop and you have to work by
your own.
Yeah. Realtime project will be covered as part of spring boot. that knowledge
sufficient for cracking the interviews and develop the projects. You don't need a separate training again. Okay. Is it
clear guys everyone? Okay. Uh let's let's go to the next topic.
This is the story about what fullstack Java. Uh online students is everything
clear about fullstack Java
please answer to my question full stack Java related all your doubts clear or
not that much don't ask extra questions for these all courses for online
students babu online students offline student there is no difference the screen is visible to you know that means
it is the same for you also.
Okay. Now please note down admin numbers
offline students admin Mr.
Venu
you can say both numbers no problem but when you are talking you have to talk to your respective admins
save no save this number in your mobiles
91 211 04
1 63
we lift. No, don't worry. Those admins are common admins but these are your batch admins. Your batch admins has to
respond to you. If not responded don't worry for online students
admin is Mr. Satish
spelling. Uh maybe that
73 825
4904. Oh, not this number.
Satish number changed.
Okay, this is the number. Yeah.
Is it clear guys? Any confusion? Still all your fullstack training complete.
Understood? I am responsible only teach you core Java. Remaining courses other faculties will come. Okay. Now let us
get into core Java. Uh one second. Yeah, same numbers will
work on calling and WhatsApp both. Okay. And next my number.
Okay. This number is common for both. Okay. For both offline, online student, common admin. Har Krishna.
Anytime you can message me 9010454584
very fancy number if you forget this number no problem go to Google search Harishna phone number
I am very famous in Google okay
if you are saving my number then you're doing big mistake this is your lifetime Same number you should by heart and
remember 9010454584. Okay. Uh next listen listen next next. I
have created one WhatsApp channel.
How to share? Open WhatsApp.
I will share all the details in this channel. Okay,
one second. Oh.
How you doing?
WhatsApp.
Okay.
All right. No problem.
Choose not better.
Okay, this is the channel linking guys. Open browser. Open browser.
Type this link as it is with the spelling same spelling.
All my students I'm sharing the link to you. You can click on it.
Same spilling
upper case HK FSJD HK fullstack Java development 9 a.m.
Everyone should join buddy. Then you can get daily class updates here.
Yes, that one only the title of
Yeah. Say I can see your messages.
Sumitra DSA as of not don't think we will see later. Okay. End of the course we'll see if required. If you feel
required you can join. DSA 75% I will cover in the class. Remaining 25%
syllabus if you need you can join course otherwise you can learn by your own.
Jani Shik, you want me to unmute?
Okay, please wait. I'll unmute.
7 a.m. batch will take time and next batch will be 6 p.m.
Fe structure. Please contact your class admins.
So don't listen the news until course completed. Okay. Stay away from the
social media negative negative news so that your career you will be happy.
Okay. If you are following negative news then you will get negative thoughts only.
AI cannot kill developers jobs
to play that with that AA tools. We need a developer. Okay.
Yeah. March first week 6 p.m. batch will be there
guys. Everyone joined. Any problems? Okay, already in that in the channel
already admin has shared yesterday class link, right? Can you see that? Okay,
people who missed yesterday class can check that one. Right. I think with this we have completed two days of our
session. In this two days we learn full stack Java related complete details and
project architecture. Right. Our agenda of this two-day class. Yesterday I told
you one more time I want see
where I save that PPT man I'm convinced of joining the developer
side or just can you please yeah Shik Mohammad please wait okay can you please
check I think the PPT has removed in my
Okay. Uh this is our agenda guys. Yesterday we have planned what is fullstack Java already understand.
Second why fullstack Java development because most trending course in the market more demand and next why
fullstack Java trending because you are a full-fledged developer. Then what are the different courses covered? totally
five modules and all the different courses project architecture I have explained okay and I think you need to
write project architecture the diagram which course is used so tomorrow I'll give you time to write otherwise shall I
upload that slide in that channel and you can copy in the notes okay I'll upload that uh slide and you can copy it
by the time tomorrow you are coming to class complete it and come and next fullstyle Java course completion steps I
gave you uh now it's the time we have to enter it into core Java course details what is the syllabus I'm covering what
are the chapters we are covering and then first chapter so tomorrow we are launching our core Java course as part
of fullstack Java is it clear all the people comfortable with these two days got clarity right so tell me what is the
architecture of the of our project old architecture latest architecture
let us go both okay old architecture latest architecture what the old architecture MVC latest architecture
microservices tell me end user to HTML, HTML to advanced Java, advanc Java to
core Java, core Java to advanc Java, advanced Java to database. And next, what the latest architecture? HTML,
React, React, React to Spring Boot, React to Spring Boot, Spring Boot to
Core Java. Wherever you go, core Java follows you. So, what is the
heart of entire project? Core Java. So take care of core Java. Core Java will take care of you. Okay. Core Java to
hibernate or spring data to the database. So there is no change in the database. There is no change in HTML.
There is no change in core Java. Only technology advance Java to framework spring boot came. So all people
comfortable with the full stack Java terminology. No confusion right? If still have confusion stay back ask me.
I'll give you your clarity and you can go. If you all clear then you can leave. Now I'm my from my side pending is
project architecture diagram I will share in the our WhatsApp channel you can copy from there okay by tomorrow
class coming hope all the people will read what I explained today and come tomorrow also I'll conduct exam as I
promise first 10 minutes we will have exam okay now thank you that's all for today class see you all tomorrow
we'll start our first chapter inje
So Patel you can come to Hyderabad tomorrow
already started Java Java module started right?
Yeah, GI say when you are doing the lab in laptop when you got any problem you
can post in the WhatsApp channel or online lab also will be there I will
check with admin and let you know I have taken Java course
I want to drop the class and I want to class yeah check with Venu he will help
Wrong. Wrong. PHP.
Yeah.
Strong teaching.
Okay. Next.
Java.
Okay.
One weekend.
Next Monday next week already
Friday
evening 6 p.m. March first week,
one week record.
When new batches are started for I will let you know.
subject.
So everything we will take care only admission everything until
Okay.
Okay.
You have to prove you are interested in programming
then you prove that you are strong in Java.
Only
hi sir. One minute nana. Yeah.
Now try with experience. 22. Now why you want fresh jobs?
Try with two years experience. She will get more salary quickly. Job.
Oh, there are so many consultancies out there. Okay. Now that you have to search is there
your friends will tell you how to do that. They don't do anything. Just they will tell
I will let you know. Yeah. J tell me.
Yeah. So I am 2018 BSc computer. So I have six years of GRA. So can I crack
interview with this course? Yeah, easily. Do I need any any other extra? I need to
learn. Yeah, easily you can crack. No problem. Okay. And one more question like uh uh
you will you give project same project for all the students or uh different project for each student.
Projects we don't give. You have to search and develop project by your own. Okay. We will teach you course and we
will implement those concepts in a one project common to all students. Individual projects you have to choose
you have to develop. Okay. Sure. Okay. Okay.
Students any other questions.
Uh sir can you hear me sir? Yes. Yes. Yeah. So my question is uh do we also have to uh learn data structures because
uh you know in most of the interviews we've been asked about data structures data structure after core java first
complete core java then think about it. I see. Okay. Okay. Now first core java.
Okay. After core java completed still if you feel data structures knowledge is required then you can join otherwise you
can leave it. But for full stack we don't need right uh data structures for fullstack developer we don't need
not required not required and after core java advanced java will come right and after that uh do we have to learn if we still
think we it is important or uh I mean yeah you teach
if you want job you have to learn whatever the order I give yeah yeah that that is there sir I I'm
very clear with whatever clarity you provided today is a very you know neatly
you drew the diagram and everything but my only question is that you know would
you be teaching if I'm interested in learning Java as of now I I'm handing only core
Java other subjects will handle by other faculties okay okay okay sir yeah
and uh okay another question I know like you already answered this to another student who was agriculture background
uh my background is well my background is not um totally on computer science
mine is like more on the industrial engineering uh more related to you know all this
manufacturing industry all that I have work experience but now like totally I know I'm switching my line
so this course will help me right if you are not part of uh not not part
of IT or electrical so if you are not touching any programming related so
after poor Java completed Oracle certification if you could write then you will have more opportunities, better
opportunities. Okay. So, certification required, what are the
knowledge required? I will share in the regular classes only. You have to do little more practice with practice
papers so that you can clear the exam. Okay, sir. Sounds good. So, uh also you
you recommended yesterday uh three books, right? uh where we can download that one uh should we wait for you uh to
come programming that book daily based on the regular class okay based on the regular
I will share that content daily chapter wise okay okay but for online student we can uh
have soft copy right yes we don't get it a hard copy yes
software sounds good and another question sir so you somebody also were asking about selenium right like all the testing uh
tools So um is it also required like what do you think like you know the
trend like you know for uh not required JUnit as a we have to do unit testing in
our project the selenium testing separate team will be there you are not part of testing department
okay but how was the trend sir for the selenium I'm just curious can learn your wish
okay okay thank you yeah Thank you sir. Thank you very much.
Shik Mohammad.
Sorry. Shik Mohammad.
Yeah. So I recommend development side
not testing side because testing side I mean testing side you know more package
you will not get more growth will not be there. So either you want to go testing
side or development side first core java is prerequisite. So first you complete
core java and then end of core java you decide want to continue the programming
or want to change to testing side. Okay now until core java completed don't
have any confusion because for selenium learning also poor java is prerequisite.
Okay now okay sir. Yeah, thank you online
students. Any other questions?
Okay.
Yeah, you can unmute.
Hello. Yeah. Uh yes sir. I'm 2015 pass out MC student
and I'm working in a service management right now as incident management part.
So um if I can join this course so can I get a job uh in the organization or
uh you should manage your experience such a way in is your company have development department?
Yes. Yes sir. Then you have to project yourself in the next interview. Three years you work in
the service side. Last two years you working in the development side.
Okay. So you have to tell to the interviewer in the interview you you are
you are learning fullstack Java knowledge now. So slowly slowly whatever the knowledge you are gaining in the course you try to have some conversation
with your developers in the company how they are using this concept as part of the development try to get some training
from them try to see their code so that you will get clear idea in resumeum when
you include the same project first you worked in the service side then you move to the development side last two years
you're working in the development so five years is complete experience and two years are the relative experience
Okay. So that way you can get the job. Okay sir. Okay.
Yeah. Thank you.
Sai Gorla it's possible you can attend online later you can come to offline. No problem.
Joti Kumari. Yeah, you can join this course and uh 6 years gap you will not
going to show complete six years. You have to tell four years or three and
a half years uh work experience you have to show. Okay.
Okay guys, your remaining questions will take tomorrow. It's all time up. I have to start another class.
Somia offline is good.
Sachin kit I already gave you the order to learn courses right? You didn't listen
already showing the list. Now that order you have to follow. If you complete courses one after one it will take two
years. Do you have that much time?
Rama satu search in the noi fullstack Java development course I mean uh
openings you'll find how many openings are there how the career will be there. Okay. search in no and job portals.
Okay guys, see you all tomorrow. Take your questions in tomorrow class.

