ript


right? Good morning everyone. Last class we are trying to understand
core Java details and core Java syllabus. Right. Uh what are the points
we discussed as part of last class? Let us try to recolct. Yeah. First day we have completed uh introduction to
fullstack Java we learned and then we have understood introduction I mean
different courses available in fullstack Java and next class we have yesterday third class we have understood uh the
first course in fullstack Java there is what core Java core Java details and the syllabus we have understood uh now tell
me first point we understood
prana For morning class it will be different link. Why the same link will be there?
There is a different course different link will be there. Okay.
Uh now let's quickly revise what we discussed last class and we'll go for new topic. Now tell me first point what
is core Java? If somebody asked what is core Java what will you answer?
H come on yesterday written notes what is core Java. Core Java is
huh using core Java what we develop? I'm not asking what is core Java.
Core Java is a one part of fullstack Java. Okay, it is a one part of fullstack Java. Uh what is core Java
again? Core Java is nothing but Java language. I repeat again what is core Java? It is a one part of fullstack
Java. It is a Java language. What will you learn as part of core Java?
H try try to recolct what we learn as part of core Java. I told you there are three to four topics I have listed. What
are that? Number one, Java language fundamentals. Uh, next.
Uh, if you forgot open notes, check in the notes. No problem. Yesterday you written notes, right? No.
Why? I didn't dictate notes yesterday. That's
why you forgot. And you are ging.
So, you are not telling anything to your brain. You have fully habituated read only
notes if not is there we will study otherwise we don't huh it's a bad habit
no bad habit a good habit did you go to movie theater for watching one movie did
you bring notes and pen huh are you writing the notes everything
what dialogue hero telling what dialogue hero is telling when the villain coming when villain kidnap the hero in huh how
hero is fighting with villain and saving the hero in are you writing That notes
when there is no notes for movie. Why you are expecting the notes from Java movie? Java is also a movie.
Is it clear? So everyone should practice, you should tell yourself, we all revise yourself what did I learn
yesterday in class? What are the points he has replied? Okay. Uh now tell no problem. So as part of core Java we are
learning number one Java language fundamentals. Number two, logical
programming. Number three, huh? Try try to recolct. Number three, objectoriented
programming. Number four, Java library. Okay. And next, are there any other
technologies developed on top of core Java? Yes, Selenium is there. Pega is
there. Mulesoft is there. So, there are so many other technologies are developed on top of Core Java. Okay. Next. How
many units are there in core Java? Five units. Okay. Uh what will you learn as
part of Java basics? How to write a program? How to compile a program? How to execute a program? You are learning.
What are you learning as part of logical programming? As part of logical programming, you are learning how to
develop mathematical operations by using Java program. Okay. Uh next uh what will
you learn as part of object-oriented programming? As part of object- oriented programming, you are learning how to
create real world objects in the programming world. How to develop business applications. So repeat again.
As part of Java basics, what are you learning? How to develop a Java program? How to compile and execute Java program.
As part of logical programming, what are you learning? Mathematics based operations. addition, subtraction,
multiplication, division. These are the operations you are learning as part of object-oriented programming. What are
you learning? How to develop business operation? One business application I want to develop. How to develop one
business application? We are going to learn. Okay. Uh then next, as part of
Java library, what are you learning? Predefined programs. Okay. Predefined
programs. Sana has given so many predefined programs. how to uh use those predefined programs in our Java
application development we are learning. Are you catching my point? So please write down all these points.
Take introduction to core Java. One second. I think we are pending with
project architecture to write right.
Yeah, please write down this project architecture first and then we go for core Java. We are pending with this
project architecture with advanced Java.
Last class we have written syllabus and learning road map. Right? Project architecture with advanced Java.
Project architecture with advanced Java.
First you write diagram then you can write arrows. Flow of execution arrows don't write first.
First you write diagram and user UI programming database.
Don't write arrow marks first.
Uh now write flow of execution arrow marks. End user is giving input to the
form. Then end user given inputs are given to advanced Java serlet.
Then advanc serlet is giving to core java.
Core java giving those inputs to advanc. Advanc store data in database tables.
and then output flow is coming back from database to JDBC, JDBC to poor Java,
poor Java to serlet. Serlet will not display output directly. It will take the help of JSP. Serate to JSP, JSP to
serate then output will come as reports. The text will be there, images will be
there and output will be displayed to end user
Everyone completed? Okay. If you have missed this architecture explanation, please watch
first day video. Okay. If you have missed yesterday class, uh day before yesterday class, you watch first today
video so that you can understand it. Just notes part I'm giving. Now tell me what is the change from old object old
project to new project advance of we are using a frameworks we are using frameworks. Can you please write here
MVC here on top this architecture? This architecture name is what? MVC. Write on
MVC architecture. This project is developed by using MVC.
Where you write here on top of this top of all this dus top you write MVC.
Uh now this is the architecture for
microervices cloud server AWS. Okay. Uh now tell me in place of HTML what you
are using for a developing UI? HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS and then in
place of advancer we use Spring Boot and then business logic core Java core Java
no change uh database interaction program DIP means what database interaction program we will develop by
using hibernate or spring data and then database tables as it is. SP means what
serverside executing program dip means database interacting program. So this is
the latest style we are developing. Uh this architecture is called what? Microervices. And for running this
project we are using AWS cloud server. Okay. Right. This is a second
architecture you have to follow. As a freshers only learning core Java, advanc
Java, Val, HTML and try for the job. You can get job. But spring boot knowledge also necessary. Fullstack Java knowledge
is required compulsory. But once advanc are completed you can start attending interviews. But for people who are
trying as an experienced people with gap as an experience. Okay. You are working in another field come to IT industry
wanted to come to IT industry or last three years, four years you are now working in uh you know for exams you are
I mean government exams you are trying okay government job you are trying now you realized that it is very difficult
to get so you want to come to IT industry. So then if you gap you are trying for the job complete full stack
Java you have to learn to try for the job. Okay. So freshers after advance try
for job. If you are trying as an experienced person you have to go for directly after completing full stack
only. Remember that. So this is the architecture you have to explain the interview.
completed guys.
So by end of fullstack Java completed, by end of advanced Java completed, you
have to complete first architecture based project. By end of fullstack Java completed you should able to develop
same project by using spring boot and microservices with AWS. So beginning
days of our fullstack Java I gave you architecture of the project. By end of fullstack Java you should able to
develop projects. So we are starting from very basic hello world program to
end of our course with complete project development. That is our fullstack Java journey. Clear my point? Huh? How many
of you join HTML course today? Okay, people are comfortable today class
demo class understood. Uh HTML is meant for developing front end pages like uh
forms and reports. So now you are learning two things. Number one HTML pages, front end pages you are learning
and also what business logic development. So after these two completed then connection purpose you
learn advanced Java and later you are learning spring boot. Okay, done. So with this we have completed our
understanding on basic understanding initial classes. With this knowledge now is the time we have to move to our core
Java related topics. Uh next introduction to core Java.
Come on guys, write down first introduction to core Java.
Uh what you have written yesterday? Write down first point.
Core Java is Core Java is
introduction to Core Java. Point number one, core Java is one of
the parts of fullstack Java. One of the part or
courses of fullstack Java. Core Java is the Java language.
Core Java is the Java language. By using Core Java,
we will develop By using Core Java, we develop
programs and projects.
By using core Java
we can develop one full project one complete project
to run a business to run a business
run a business. But this project can be only
standalone.
A standalone project
cannot be accessed from
other computers
via network from browsers.
Then to buy products,
client must comes to
the company premises.
Premise spelling correct P R E M I S spelling masters
you also don't know Java don't know spellings don't know
P R E M I S yes yes corrected okay company premises
he or she cannot buy
products from
his or her house directly
for accessing
for making a project
accessible.
throughout the world
via browser or via mobile app
from client system. from customer.
Uh can you please do one small correction here? Don't write client. You say customer.
Sixth point to buy products. Customers.
Client means the person who pay money for developing the projects. Customer means the person who use the project.
Okay. Terminology is different. Then to buy products,
customers must come to come to the company premises.
He or she cannot buy products from his house directly. Now for making a project
accessible throughout the world via browser or via mobile app from
customer's house. We must develop.
We must develop internet or web applications in bracket website.
uh for developing a website
just core Java is not
sufficient. We must is not sufficient. Full stop.
We must also use what now?
Advanced Java, HTML and Oracle
as shown in above architecture.
Happy
question.
What is the question? They are
angled. What we can develop
via mobile app. We can access not develop
for making a project accessible throughout the world
via browser. Accessible via browser or via mobile app.
Okay. Now not to develop.
When we develop web project,
we develop a project place in the server. To access that web project, we
use browser or mobile app. Okay.
Uh now tell me final conclusion what is core Java?
Core Java is one of the parts of fullstack Java. Core Java is the Java language
or you can make it I'm just changing core Java is the Java language. It is
one of the parts of you don't change. Huh? You don't change. It is one of the parts of fullstack
Java. Okay. Or you can say it is the first part of fullstack Java.
First part of fullstack Java. That is the first point. What is core Java? Second, what we do by using core Java?
By using core Java, we develop programs and projects. Okay. Uh what type of
project? By using core Java, we can develop one complete project to run a
business. But this project can be only standalone project. Then what is a
standalone project? A standalone project cannot be accessed from other computers
via network and browser. Then to buy then to buy products customers must come
to the company premises. He or she cannot buy products from his or her
house directly. Uh then for making project accessible for making project
accessible throughout the world via browser or via mobile app from
customer's house we must develop internet or web application. How can I
develop internet or web application? For developing a website or web application
just core Java is not sufficient. We must also use advanced Java, HTML,
varacle as shown in above architecture already written architecture. So this is
what first point we completed what is core Java. Second point is what? Why
core Java? Using core Java what we can do. Okay. And then continue your number.
I'm taking this as third point. You can continue your number. Uh third point what are the different things we are
learning as part of core Java. As part of core Java,
as part of core Java, we will learn below five units.
Five units. Number one.
Uh, what the number one? Java language
basics or Java basics simply Java basics.
Second, logical programming. Third,
object oriented programming. Fourth,
Java library in bracket also you can write what API. Fifth
project development. What project?
SA. SA stands for standalone application
as part of Java basics.
We will learn.
We will learn. Installing
JDK software.
We'll install. Installing JDK software. Developing.
Developing a Java program.
Developing a Java program. Comma. Compiling
and executing
Java program.
You should know sir what you are learning as part of this. Okay. Next. As part of
SA means standalone application. API means application programming interface.
Satish share WhatsApp channel link. Don't share
videos directly here. People will collect the videos from WhatsApp channel.
Check with Chitty offline online students should receive WhatsApp link.
If not ask the ask him to send mail.
Satish did you hear me?
Satish Kumar. No, Satish P. Admin.
One minute guy. Let me talk to admin once.
uh guys tell me as part of logical programming uh what you are learning
developing math based
developing math based
Or you can say math based calculations.
Math based calculations in Java.
Now what are they? Addition, subtraction,
[Music] finding percentage
of a given number dot dot dot dot means accept.
After this discussion completed, I will give you one example. I want you identify where is all these five units.
Okay. All these five units where available you have to able to identify. And now next as part of
object oriented programming
we will learn. We will learn developing
programs to perform one business
operation by creating
a real world object in programming world.
For example, Amazon
Amazon website with mobile
TV dot dot dot objects creation.
completed. Uh next as part of
Java library we will learn
we will learn Java provided
predefined programs. Java provided predefined programs.
We will learn Java provided predefined programs
to develop
our project by reusing
Java predefined programs. for past
development. Girls, what are you talking
discussing? Sometimes you people are missing common
sense. If you talking each other, it's a disturbance to other people.
Okay, remember it's not partnner it's a classroom should have some discipline
not only girls boys also so this two hours you should only focus on what we
are learning here not your personal works after class you have a lot of free time to talk that time you can talk so
tell me did you get clarity on all these four parts uh here predefined classes
predefined
classes are also called as API.
API stands for
application programming interface. What the meaning
of these all these words I will explain you as part of API discussion time
by end of the course
we will develop
one project
We will develop one project
by using all four Java concepts,
API.
to perform one business, one real world business
operations. One real world business operations
one real world business operations. So this is our syllieria.
Okay. Introduction to core java. Everyone understand it? Okay. So now
now I hope you can answer these questions quickly. Can you answer now? so that we go for next topics. Uh what
is core Java? It's a Java language. The first course of fullstack Java. What
will you learn as part of core Java? Java language. Java language you learn.
Are there any other technologies developed on top of core Java? Yes. Advanced Java developed on Core Java.
Spring Boot developed on Core Java. Selenium developed on Core Java. Pa developed on Core Java. Mulesoft
developed on Korea. So if you learn core Java your path will be so bright. You
can move from one technology to another technology easily. Next, how many units are there as part of core Java? Five
units. Let me remove this question. Uh how many technologies? How many units
are there? Five units. What are they? Number one, Java basics, logical programming, object oriented
programming, Java library and project development. Uh now tell me as part of Java basics we are learning how to
develop a program compile and execute. Next as part of uh logical programming
what type of programs you are developing mathematical operation. Okay mathematical operation based programs we
are developing. Uh as part of object- oriented programming what type applications developing business
applications we are developing. Okay. Next what will you learn as part of Java library? previous uh sorry predefined
programs given by Java as part of Java we have so many predefined programs for our project to develop fast suppose I
wanted to uh suppose I wanted to convert a string to upper case I want to convert
a string to lower case I want to store data in a file I want to store a data in
a database for that I don't need to write any logic we have so many predefined programs are there by using
them we can develop the programs very fast uh next tell me as part of uh okay
can we develop a complete project by using Java by using core Java? Yes. But
what type of projects standalone only? Uh nice. Then next what the need of advanc when we can develop complete
project by using core Java? Uh to provide internet access using core Java
we can develop only standalone. To make our application as a internet application we use advanc Java. Okay.
Then tell me what type of application can we develop by using core java standalone. Next can we develop a
project by using core java? No. Okay. Just by using advanc java. Can we develop web application
just by using advanca? Can we develop web application? No. Advanc using advanc
we cannot develop application. We can only make application as what standalone
I mean uh accessible. Okay. Then who will develop the project? Core job. That means in a web application what are the
courses we are using core java and advanc java both and tell me what is the role of core java and advanc java. Core
java is developing application and advanc making that application
accessible by a internet and making that application as web application or website. Uh tell me can we interact with
a database for storing data in database by using core java? By using core Java
can we interact with a database? No. By using core Java, can we interact with
the database? No. What we required advanc Java. Tell me what is the role of HTML, Advanc Java, Core Java and
database. Core Java role is developing application. Uh HTML is the role is
collecting the data from the user throughout the world. Advanc Java responsibilities collecting the data
from HTML and giving the data to core Java. collecting data from core java and
giving back to HTML. So advanc just become a connection between HTML and core Java and making our application as
internet accessible. What the role of advanc providing the memory providing the space for storing data permanently.
Next, what is the duration of core Java? Uh 3 months. What the duration of
fullstack Java? Yesterday people confused. One student asked me the question sir fullstack completed in 3
months. No, that is the duration of core java. What the fee of core java
3,500. What the fullstack Java fee? You have to ask admin. Understand the fee
what I told you yesterday that is core java fees. Are recordings provided for core java.
Are recordings provided for fullstack Java? Yes, for fullstack Java recordings
will be there. Okay, your other faculties provided. Now I'm giving a choice to you. You want also recordings
for core java my class admin mean I mean management is ready to give you core java it is it was my
decision I don't want to give recordings it's not because my videos may go out in the market if it go out in the market I
will be happy because I am getting more famous in the market no yes or no right when my videos share it
in the world people come to know my talent no right and people realize oh there is a special pakati called har
krishna teaching differently ka have a varied dep so let me take admission that is a free publicity you are giving to me
but why I'm not interested to give kjava recordings because he will become lazy he will not listen in the class after
going to room recordings will be there I can listen again here 2 hours waste in the room again you will listen the core
java video again two hours waste you'll not understand again you will listen one more time lifelong that one video only
you will listen okay now you cannot focus fully because kjava is a language you should be more
focused Like how you learn 10th class intermediate that way you have to learn by studying the material that is what my
intention no sir we want recordings of core java means I will inform to admin he will provide you video recordings no
problem okay now but for core java recording purpose we need to buy the space for providing access to core java
videos we need to buy space free of cost will not provide now we need a space for buying recordings to record and post in
a server and provide access to you for that the for that saving videos and recording purpose you have to pay extra
fees. Are you following? Core Java fees is 3,500. You want recordings also extra
fees you have to pay. I think admin will tell you that extra fees how much clear my point? So I am 100% not recommending
to take any recordings for either core Java fullstack Java. If you take recordings you will become slowly slowly
lazy and you will postpone today, tomorrow, tomorrow, day after tomorrow. 6 months course completed recordings you
collected again you started studying after 6 months by the time your classmate already got the job you will
start learning that's why recordings make you lazy extra money you are wasting extra time you are wasting so if
you want recordings let me change uh for my course also I am providing recordings okay live class one course one fees and
with recordings another fees will be there so that fees what I didn't check with the admin so admin will send you a
with the recordings without recordings what is the fees you can start doing the payment for that clear my point so I
think online students are very happy offline students you don't recordings no
you also want recording okay your wish so now if you want
recordings or no recordings it's up to you okay demo recordings will be provided fees once the main course is
started recordings will be provided only for paid students and that extra fees you have to pay I think it's clear to
you Sir why you are taking extra fees? Because we have to buy server for storing the recorded video. Okay. Now
free of cost server will not be available. Okay. Next. What are the other courses we must learn in parallel
to core Java? Hml and core Java. To complete full
stack Java in less time. To complete fullstack Java in less time. What are
the other courses we learn parallel? Tell me is it mandatory you should learn parallel? No. If you have sufficient
time, you can go one after one. If you have less time, you have to learn. Okay. Then next, what is the timing for HTML?
7:00 a.m. What I 2 p.m. Uh tell me what should I do if
this timing is not suitable for me? Wait for next week another time when new
batches will start. Every week Java batch will be there. Every week HTML
batch will be there. Every week Oracle batch will be there. Which time is suitable for you that time you can
choose the batch. It is not rule that you have to join now only. Understand my point. And if you feel oh no I can
understand only pja one course multiple courses my brain cannot receive. Wait then okay next week you can plan or
other week you can plan. Whenever you comfortable that time you plan but you know once you take admission to
fullstack Java I think uh infinite time you cannot wait. There is a time limit
also one year or something one time limit is there. within that one year you have to complete your course. If you are
not completing you have to pay rejoin course. So check with the admin all these points. Okay clear my point right.
So these are the points we discussed yesterday and today I have dictated notes for you also. Is it clear to
everyone? Let's start the first chapter introduction to Java. Right. Chapter one,
Java basics or introduction to Java.
So I am 100% not recommending go for recordings. Don't choose recordings.
Okay? without recordings live class you choose and fully focus in the class and I'm dictating every point what I am
telling after going into home read notes read points something if you don't
understand ask me in the next class I will explain if you have recordings your mind cannot get maturity
your mind cannot improve thinking process so 100% I'm not supporting
recordings okay I will give you recordings you can take it by paying extra fee But I'm not suggesting you
that's what my from my side my suggestion. So tell me uh as part of introduction to Java or Java basics we
have to learn here number one write down what is Java? Second why Java? Third who invented
Java?
Who invented Java?
Everyone please write notes. Notes is very very important. Initial days notes is very important. Going on you can
avoid writing notes but initial days very important. What is Java? Why Java? Who invented Java? And next step.
What are the softwares required to develop
a Java program?
Installing Java software
JDK. Installing Java software JDK.
Essential statements to develop a
to develop compile. Okay.
Essential statements to develop a Java program.
Next steps to
develop, compile, and execute
a Java program. Steps to develop, compile, and execute a
Java program.
Next, your favorite program. Program one.
Hello World app. developing,
compiling and executing.
Satish with recording share payment.
Next
solving compile time
solving compile time and
runtime errors.
compiler and JVM activities.
Basic JVM architecture basics
escape sequence characters.
more practice programs. That's it. So these are the
topics you have to learn as part of Java basics.
Okay. Na completed.
Uh let's start first point.
Now tell me what is Java? Uh Java is there
for Java is a part of full stack Java. Okay. I am asking what is Java?
Java is a a language speaking language.
Java is a programming language. Okay. Is Java the first programming language in
the market? Before Java, we have famous programming languages. What are they?
C and C++. When you have already C language in the market, why Java
introduced? Then already see there in the market
already C is there. Then why Java has given? Why Java is invented?
Uh for
objectoriented programming. Okay. C is a object oriented programming
or procedural programming. Last chair
answer. I'm asking questions. Are you replying?
Answer.
See C is object oriented.
If you sit silently, you will not connect to the subject and it will become very difficult. Okay. And tell me C is what style of programming language?
procedural oriented because it is a procedure oriented programming language.
Can you develop business applications? No, we can develop only mathematical
based application. So C language target was only developing mathematic based
programming. I mean mathematics based programs then because of C not supporting object- oriented programming
business applications unable to develop. That's why object-oriented programming came into market. So first point you
have to accept why object- oriented programming for a developing business applications. Sir what is the difference
between math based and business application? We will understand slowly. Okay. First you accept it. So using C we
can develop only mathematic based programs. Uh using objectoriented
programming languages we can develop business application. Tell me is Java
the first business object oriented program? No. After C we got something called what? C++.
C++ means the same syntaxes of C will be there extra. That's why plus+. What is
the ++? Objectoriented uh concepts are also supported by C++. So C will support only procedure style.
C++ supports both procedure and object oriented. Tell me it is a single
programming paradigm, multirogramming paradigm. Procedure programming one paradigm
paradigm one style of writing program uh objectoriented is what another style so tell me C++ supporting one style or two
styles two style C is a single programming paradigm C++ is a
multi-programming paradigm two programming paradigm it's supporting understand uh now tell me for supporting
objectoriented programming already we have C++ now then why Java came
uh now Java is invent iented not for just object oriented not for just a
business application using C++ we can develop procedure style mathematics object oriented style business
application then why Java came Java came into market for supporting platform
independency so what is Java Java is an ob platform independent objectoriented
programming language Java is a programming language is what style of programming language object oriented.
What style of object oriented platform independent object oriented programming language? So if interviewer ask a
question tell me what is Java? Java is a one of the fullstack Java. No Java
fullstack Java. Okay getting my point? So core Java means what? It is a one part of Java. One of the parts of Java
is core Java. Java means full complete. Okay. So what is Java? Java is a
platform independent objectoriented programming language. Point number one,
is it clear? Uh Java will support procedure style of programming only.
Objectoriented style of programming only object oriented. Sir, what the meaning of procedure style? Object oriented
style. Procedure style means you can write the logic directly. I want to add two numbers directly. Write log adding
two numbers logic. You wanted to store data directly. You can create variable. But object-oriented style everything you
have to write inside a class. There is a concept called what? Class. Tell me I
wanted to teach Java. Can I teach by collecting all the people on the road? Can I teach Java? No. If I teach on the
road, it is a procedure oriented. Understand my point? Uh no, no, no. I am
creating one four walls and asking all the people come inside, close the door
and then teach. Uh that is called what? objectoriented style. So teaching
openly, write the program openly, no boundaries, no surroundings, then that is what style of programming procedure
oriented. No, I have to first start writing program with what class and then following by open bracket, closed
bracket. Inside the class I'm writing variables, methods, a lot of things then we call it as what? Object oriented
style. Got clarity? Right? Procedure style means no class directly vate the values and logic whereas object oriented
means first we write what class. So tell me in Java can you write any program
directly? No you have to start with what class. Point number one clearer. Uh now
from Java 8 version onwards Java is supporting one one more style of
programming called functional programming. What are the programming? Functional programming. From the
beginning, Java supporting which programming? Objectoriented programming from Java 8 version. Java has a
different version. Start from 1.0 to 21
versions we have in the market. Uh now Java 1.0 to Java 7 version. Java
supports only what style of programming? Objectoriented programming. Java 8
version onwards it is supporting what style of programming functional programming sir what the meaning of
functional programming accepted in the coming days I will tell you cannot understand today okay now next in Java 9
version it is also supporting one more style of programming called modular
programming what programming modular programming uh Java 21 version onwards
it is also supporting to write a program without a class procedure style C style
From which version onwards? Java 21 version onwards. From Java 21 version
onwards, we can name we can create a Java program without class. That means
tell me slowly slowly Java starts with object- oriented programming and keep on
adding the new style of programming according to industry requirement or not. Uh now tell me is Java just object-
oriented programming a multi-parad programming language? Uh no no you tell me what is Java now?
What is Java? Now Java is a platform independent multi object oriented
programming definition old Jamana gone. Okay. Now who are you? Java 7 developer.
Java 21 developer. You are latest developer Java 21 version developer.
What is your correct answer? Java is a platform independent multi-parad
programming language. This word is not my word. It is official word given by Sun Micros systemystem. I'll show you
the document also. Okay. Sun micro systemystem from Java 21 version onwards they have used officially one word Java
is a multi-parad programming language. Clear? Huh? Now tell me what is Python?
Suddenly why Python came? Okay. Because Python is our competitor in the market. You should know about competitors also.
Uh what is a Python? Python is a multi-parad programming language. It is also Python is also platform independent
multi-parad programming language. It will support number one scripting style programming. It is very much famous for
scripting style programming. Number two procedure programming, number three object oriented programming, number four
functional programming, number five modular programming. All five styles of
programming is supporting. These are the five styles of programming there in the market. All five styles are supporting
by Python and more popular for what? Procedure uh scripting more popular for
scripting programming. Java more popular for what? Object oriented. Python popular for scripting. Uh now tell me
Python is slowly slowly booming in the market for which programming style? Scripting style. Java because scripting
is not there. latest in the market scripting style programming people are opting for uh if Java doesn't support
scripting style programming Java will out from the market now then what you do you say you are the Java owner what will
you do will you allow Java out from the market you will add the scripting style
programming that's what Java people doing now
tell me everybody telling in the market Java gone Java kill Java
Okay. Java cannot be removed from the market. Each and every application in
the market, every business application is developed by using Java. If Java out
from the market, complete world will be collapsed. The first first industry collapsed is
bank systems are collapsed. Every bank is developed by using what? Java not by using Python.
Python is started in the market in the year 2018 before Java 8 1995 onward.
Java ruling in the market. Still Java is number one programming language. People are showing Python as number one
programming language. Right? Python if you go to Google and type a top ranked
programming languages. Python is in the top ranked for what purpose? Not for development for searching.
More people are searching for Python tutorials. Why? Because every application backend language is what?
Python. Java application back end Python is there.NET application back end Python is
there. PHP application back end Python is there. Uh in every project Python is there. No no only in social media
applications Python is there. Online shopping application Python is there. Python is more popular for what? Data
analyzation purpose. Python has a huge mathematical library which are not
available in Java which are not available inn net which are not available in PHP. Are you catching my
point? So now suppose if you remember if you remember you go to your browser
in your mobile goto browser or somewhere search for some shoe you search in any
app you search for shoe then on your mobile apps ads are running now uh from
that day onwards in all apps what is coming that shoe app only will come hello in imagine you searched for this
issue you forgot to buy when are you buying and I keep on reminding Huh? Who
will do the job? Data analyzation will done. Whenever you search data based on
the search data background, the data is taken by one program and then keep on sending the notifications. Babu
recommendations. See on sending recommendation, you searched it, you want to buy, you searched it, you want to buy until you buy, it will not leave
you. That program is Python. The app is developed by using Java. Background of
that app the data analyzation is doing by whom now? Python. So tell me now the front what you are seeing is Java. Back
what is there? Python. Are you people got clarity? So tell me can you separate Java and Python nowadays in the market?
Not possible. Both are working together. Without Java knowledge can you develop app? No. Without Python knowledge can
you develop data analyzation? No. Now early people realize now Java has more
jobs. Python has more jobs. Now my my my applic I want one application for uh my
gym application. I want to develop for story my customers information. Python required or not required? Not required
only Java sufficient app development what we required Java. Based on the data
searching in my gym application is it a social media application throughout the world it is available? No. Uh people are
doing any searching data in my app? No. Then Python required or not required? Not required. Out of 100 application in
how many programs Python is used? Maybe 20 applications. And how many jobs you
have on Java? 100. How many jobs are in Python? 20. Tell me if you choose Python
as your career, will you have more jobs or less jobs? Less jobs. Next point. Are
you accepted? Second point. Listen. If you learn Java,
can you shift to Python? Come on. Come on. Come on. Think. If you learn Java, can you go to Python? If you
learn Python, can you come to Java? No. Let me prove that point. Let me prove that point. Okay. Uh let me prove that
point. This is Java application. Okay. Using edit plus I'm opening Java
application. This is Java program syntax. Okay. Now, this is Java program
syntax. Java is a full-fledged programming language. Complete syntax.
full-fledged syntax programming language that means you can say your body your
body full body is what your Java inside this body your skeleton
bones skeleton that is python only skeleton is python tell me now
skeleton work without body no skeleton is meant for inserting inside one body
now observe now here I'm writing some addition program class addition look at there your Java program fully Ready?
Inside this addition program, what you are doing? You are adding numbers, your mathematics. Int= 10, into b =
20, into c= a + b. Uh, system.out.print
of what you writing now? C. This is your Java program. Everyone understand? Don't
understand. Accepted. I will make you understand each and every word. Okay? But I wanted to prove
that Java is best choice of Python is best choice. I want you only to tell. I
don't want to tell. Okay. This is our Java program. Okay. What is Python program? Python is also a program. It is
also meant for programming. It is also meant for performing mathematical operation. Uh same program copy which
program? Java program. Now go to Python file new other radia.
Python selecting ready. Hello everyone. Are you online students
sleeping fellows? Wake up. Are you are you everyone looking at the screen?
Python. Where is
where is nothing is there? Python is very easy because nothing is
there. Understood?
Java is very tough because everything is there. Ada this is what faculties are telling
YouTube is telling. Look look here Java is having how many lines of code? Oh my
god. Classu may these many lines you have to write Java very tough.
Python nothing is there. That's Python is easy and without nothing is there. Python is
easier. Such a wrong way people are projecting Python easy. Python easy.
Python is such a horrible programming language. Okay. Uh look at that. In Python you no need
to write class. Why? Because it is a scripting language. No need to write
main method because it is a scripting programming language. No need to write body because scripting language. No need
to write body. Scripting language. Java is a scripting language. Full-fledged
programming language. It is a full-fledged programming language. Suppose you are going with your entire
family from one place to another place. You are shifting your house. Then entire house belongings you are taking, packing
going or not. You are coming to Hyderabad to stay only for 1 month or
two months. Are you bringing entire your house things? No. coming to Hyderabad, one hostel you are taking or one hotel
you are taking and then living here. That means when you are taking hostel or or hotel for rent, uh that means your
body is scripting. You are inside one house staying there running your life and going out full-fledged house
required or not required? Not required. You are completely shifting from your native place to Hyderabad. You need your
belongings and one house complete house now that is Java. Observe here Python is
a scripting language. It is meant for running where in other language. Python
will not run alone. Python is embedded inside Java program and execute as part
of Java program. If Python is coming its own body, how it can be embedded in
another body. Suppose soul you take body you take. Soul is Python. Uh tell me
body is Java. So if soul can soul can be embedded inside body or not? Yes. How
many souls can be there? One soul, multiple souls, multiple souls can be there. Kjina
did you watch movie Kina? Huh? Multiple souls can be there. Multiple script programs can be embedded. But generally
one soul will be there. Tell me one body can I put in another body? No. So tell me Python is more famous for scripting
purpose. So that's why it doesn't have body. Even you no need to write data
type and even you no need to write semicolon because it's part of another
program. No system dot this is Python aba. Wow, so simple, so elegant. Just
like a wow. Correct. Huh? Java is Oh my god. Extra three lines
main into into Java very tough.
Try to think. Try to think in a software industry. Are you working only in one
language? No. Many languages you have to work. Now you taken decision to learn
Java. When you go to hostel people look at your face and say mama you taken wrong decision ra Java very tough
immediately question who told you my friend told then who told your friend
uh friend friend somewhere one fellow started one word called what it is tough and if some
negative statement wrong statement tell you then you'll accept it okay ocean is very tough to swim then how the
fisherman is swimming And you have a technique and this fellow don't have technique. If you learn how
to learn technique, it is easy. Uh observe observe observe observe. What is the difference between Java and Python?
Java is a full-fledged programming language. Python is a
20% syntax programming language. If you take a dare decision to learn full
syntax, then moving to Python easy or not? If you learn Python, can you come
to Java? Impossible. Not difficult. I'm saying it is impossible. Sir, when I learn Python,
why I come to Java? Sir, Python is working background. What? Java orn net or PHP? Uh, tell me if you learn Java,
I can go to any programming language. Net same style. PHP same style.
JavaScriptor same style. Any programming language you take all programming
languages syntaxes are similar to Java. Are catching my point? So if anybody has
joined Python and come to you look at them and say LKG Ba is Raja
tell me a 10th class student can teach LKG. Yeah LKG student can learn 10th class.
No. Uh Python in US learn by sixth class students. You people in America bet
completed students are learning Python. Wonderful. No in US UK foreign Python
language is a sixth class standard language. It is there Java will not taught in in in sixth class. They will
taught in BTE. Bte and MS Java will be the subject. That means Java is very
tough for full syntax language. Full syntax language. Now in the B tech level
which language you have to learn Java only Java sufficient. I say no because
Java background working in Python. So my strong recommendation for all the
student you learn Java thoroughly master Java have an idea on Python. Okay, tell
me Java is a sorry Python is a only scripting language object oriented also
object oriented I should start with the class or uh observe same program you
know Python faculties are comparing Java object oriented syntax with Python
scripting syntax wrong idea if you wanted to write this object oriented
syntax in Python same syntax you have to write the only difference is This body
will not be there. Colon will be there. Body will not be there. Colon will be there. Remaining everything is what?
Same. Ask your Python faculty if any of your friends are joining Python course. Ask
your Python faculty. Java is a object oriented style. Now sir, is Python
supporting object oriented? Yes, teach that program first. Compare Java object oriented to Python object oriented. Then
you will realize really Python easy or not. Wrong way they are comparing and
hypnotizing students brain. Python easy. Python easy.
Okay. Okay. Uh so finally I hope I gave you
clarity. Java is easier. Python is easier. Both are easy. Both are
difficult. Cycle is easier. Bike is easier. Both are difficult. Both are easy. Bike is easier. Car is easier.
Both are difficult. Both are both are easy. It's depending on our mindset. So finally tell me buddy uh Java currently
not supporting which style of programming scripting style and huge mathematical functions are not there.
From Java 211 onwards it started evaluating evolving as what scripting
language in the coming versions. Paka complete Python will be copied into Java. Tell me about it. I have a office
where I have two different language people are there then the communication between them is easy and difficult then
my product development and product operation become faster slow in my
project if I use Java and Python both for connecting these two language I
again want to mediator between that via mediator if I send then the taking more
time no uh if Java is supporting the scripting style Java is supporting that
full mathematical library then tell me do I need Python or not required? Not required. One last question to all to
prove once again Python is not at all competitor to Java. To prove that point
I want to ask one last question. Java first invented a Python first invented a
such an innocent people you are. Again I'm telling you such an innocent
people you are. We can easily cheat you, bluff you and make the money can bring
the money from your pocket into our pocket. Really?
Okay. They go. I know. I know you can be easily cheated.
Python history.
Python was conceived in the late 1990s by Gurioan
Rasam. In which year it was designed developed? 1980.
In which year Java developed? 1991. 1991 Java development initiated. 1995 it
is introduced to the market. After how many years of Java born? By After how many years of Python born? Java born.
Java born in 1980. Java born in 1991.
If a Python is capable of doing Java Java operation then why James Kosling
developed Java. James Kosling wanted to develop an application for that he's searching for
the language that language was not there in the market. That's why James Kosling has developed what Java if Python is
capable of developing the big business applications will Java need there or therea not there
now you tell Java great or Python greater Python great Java is great
Java is there in the market after Python that means Python cannot do some cap
Python doesn't have some capabilities those capabilities are there in Java Okay. 1991 it initiated development.
1995 it is introduced the market. After 1995 to till 2018
Java ruling the market full applications development. There is no word called Python in the market.
In the 2018 Python started slowly heing
the market because of Google. Because of Google. Google want actually
Google started as a search engine first slowly slowly slowly it become advertising company Google has taken
complete world into Google uh what do you call Google browser Chrome then huge
number of people are doing searching the Google for free then slowly Google approaching different companies hello I
have this much user base you want to promote your product in my website uh come so that I can promote your website
to the different user so that your sales will be increased. Uh slowly Google has
started facing one problem. It's very important sir. I'm not telling cognable stories. Okay. It's very important. You
should have that difference between Python and Java. Why Python? Why Java? That clarity you need to have that road
map. You should have otherwise every day you'll have a confusion. Am I doing good job in Java? Is it my right decision to
continue in Java? This confusion will be there. I want to overcome that confusion. Listen carefully.
uh now Google has started uh running the ads in the different
websites then Google slowly facing problem tell me as a customer I want to
buy shoe if the shoe ad is displaying to me I'll be interested to click it and
buy it if it is showing the TV ad mobile ad some other ad I'll get irritated on
it uh Google unable to solve that problem then Slowly slowly it started
thinking about how to overcome this problem. Then it has to search data
analyzation. For search data analyzation, huge mathematical libraries required.
Statistic required. Linear algebra is required. This mathematical libraries
are not available in Java. Gmail developed by using Java. Google
developed by using Java. But in that data is collecting by Java application.
But Java language has not provided huge mathematical libraries. Then Google
started searching for alternative language. They found one language called what? R not Python. What the language
name? R. Like C language. There was a language called what? R. This R language
syntaxes and something what you know difficult. Then then again they started searching for some other language. Is
there any other language in the market which will contain more mathematical libraries supporting scripting style
because this program has to be embedded as part of Java program now that embedding purpose uh scripting style
program required with a huge mathematical libraries that was none other than Python. So then people are
started using Python. Then Google identified yeah Python is good. Now then
for developing Google applications Java is using the data collected in the
Google applications and different Android mobile application for processing the data. What the people are
using background Python using then slowly Google started using Python and
then other companies also realized okay okay now I can also use Amazon using Python, Flipkart using Python, Myntra is
using Python, Facebook is using Python. Slowly all social media apps are started
using Python Raja. So tell me Java is meant for a
developing application. Python is meant for developing application of background data analyzation. Data analyzation or to
develop recommendation system. One recommendation system to develop. Python is using for a data analyzation. Tell me
if Java is supporting complete mathematical library then slowly in the coming days Python will gone from the
market or not. So tell me what is the right choice? Python or Java. Now Java
is the right choice. Next point tell me if you want to learn Java using Java.
Are you developing data analyzation applications or simple mathematical business applications? Simple
mathematic. If you know adding two numbers, subtracting two numbers and tell me 10 plus 20 how much? Wow. You
are masters in Java. And if you know how to add two numbers, you can come into Java. Listen, Python
is meant for huge data processing purpose. Then just adding two numbers,
subtracting two numbers knowledge is sufficient. No, you should have a strong knowledge on statistics.
Strong knowledge mathematical knowledge on linear algebra. Do you know these two? And strong knowledge on
trigonometry also you should have. If you know this knowledge, then only choose Python.
already in B tech M2 subject tortured me I don't want to go back again and
silently continue in Java I'm telling you you will get job before Python
developer Java person Python developer both started IT career who will get job first 100% I'm assuring Java people will
get job first and next who will get fast first fast promotion Java people will get first promotion who will get more
more more salary Java people will get more salary in company if company demand
ing you to convert as a Python developer. Can you change to Python developer? Yes, because uh what is the
difference between Java and Python? Aala remove. Okay. You remove this. Uh you remove
this. Uh you remove this. Okay. Uh you remove this.
You remove this. That's all. Python is there. And in Java you are writing
program plus logic. Python means you are writing only logic.
So finally you decide and you have to argue with your Python friends. Re you
learn Python careful background. Anakonda is coming okay to swallow your career and you also so don't get trapped
by Python people python faculties. I'm not saying that don't join Python. Okay. But the word I am telling you Python
easy, Java tough that uh wrong impression created in the market. Okay.
My nephew just you know B tech second year and called me yesterday and told
mama I want to join course. Which course? Python I want to join. Why
Python? Uh my friend told Python easy. Huh? Who told your for a friend? Uh he's a
friend. Who told he's a friend? He's a friend. Friend friend finally who told one faculty told and a faculty who feel
Java easy telling Java easy. A faculty who feel Python is easy telling Python
is easy. So namaskar finally I hope you got clarity. Finally I want to tell you
one point. Now the industry is settled with two
languages. Number one Java. Number two Python. Okay. Java is meant for
developing application, business application and Python meant for developing data science, machine
learning, artificial intelligence application. If you want a career application development side with a huge
number of openings, then choose Java. You want data science, machine learning,
artificial intelligence application with strong mathematical knowledge, then choose what? Python.
Once you enter it into software industry, more jobs are there in Java 100% no
confusion in that less number of jobs in Python. Okay. Now next if you are a Java
developer while you are moving from one company to another company somewhere you will see Python also you need to work
with the Python also. That's why my recommendation is along with the full stack Java you learn Python also not
full stack Python only core Python advanced Python basic Python course you learn either by joining the course you
learn or you learn by your own with the knowledge of Java that is up to you okay now but not don't concentrate on Python
now after your fullstack Java completed as a time pass purpose in free time you just you know explore Python also clear
my point any of your friends in Hyderabad or in your hostels or in your college say Python is easy call him how
Python is tell me how Java is that tough tell me ask him with practical comparison not with a object oriented oh
look at the classroom main method Python doesn't that is scripting it is object oriented cannot compare you know animal
with a human that is a wrong comparison okay all people got clarity one last question
shall I ask to make you understand I mean really you understand or not to test uh tell me now you know YouTube
every day you're using YouTube did you write any mail reply mail to any of your
friends uh in YouTube go to search box today you search Java Hari Krishna
videos my name is Java Har Krishna there are so many arras are there Google recognize me as what Java Har Krishna
okay so Java Har Krishna videos you search one two videos you watch close
your YouTube app after 1 hour or Tomorrow open app
on homepage all my apps only all my videos only will be there. Now uh that
YouTube app is developed by using which language? Java based on your search
background data process and recommendation giving to Java by whom? Python. So tell me can you separate Java
and Python now? No they become word lovers. Okay. Now you cannot separate if you
break if you want to break up it's not possible now in the industry. Second question what now you take now uh
WhatsApp in WhatsApp there are some conversations are there uh now whenever you send a message or you send a voice
message automatically auto reply is coming or not who is talking you to background one human one robona robo
robbo robo option boats we call them as now as what boat
or whatever. Okay. Uh tell me that bot both are bought. What is that? AI artificial intelligency application. It
is that artificial intelligency application. This WhatsApp app is developed by using Java and that robotic
application is developed by using Python based on your data. It is doing
processing background recognizing what options you want. That options it is returning. Tell me hello Google is what?
Python. Hello Siri is what? Python. Are you catching my point? Right. And
next that is what artificial inundancy application a when you are typing your
Gmail reply when you type hello uh whoever send a message that person name
will come. Okay. Meet you later tomorrow sometime some some suggestion words are
coming. Now uh the suggestion words are machine learning. What we call it as machine learning. Machine is nothing but
software. We are giving some learning to the software for guessing the next words and phrases. So that is what machine
learning data processing machine learning artificial intelligency application for developing what language
we use Python. The basic business applications to develop what we use Java. Without business application
Python will not work. So that's why Java Python working together. So finally tell me where to where we started where we
come. Uh we started with the word called what? Java is a platform independent
multi-parad programming language. Uh do you have any multiaramm programming
language exist in the market? Yes. What is that language? Python. Uh what is the extra extra paradigm? It is supporting
scripting. Is Java supporting scripting now? No. Coming days may be supported
for giving computation to Python. So in Python whatever available everything slowly slowly slowly adding to Java
going on going on in the next versions paka Java will be a scripting language with a full-fledged mathematical support
will be there so that Python will be out from the market. How can I prove that Python will be out in the market? Python
was jamana column 1990 80 language and Java is 1991. So so 25 266 years it is
ruling the market. Then why Python came? Even Python come Java is still remain because Python purpose is different.
Java purpose is different with this entire explanation awareness. Can you argue with your Python friends in
hostel? Don't fight with a smile face answer. Kadra mama
Java like this Python like this both are safe not easy not just you just you need to realize Java is also easy. Someone
wrongly injected that point in your mind. So today we got good definition on
what is Java. Java is a platform independent multi-paradigm programming
language. From the beginning version it supports objectoriented style of
programming. Java 8 version it support functional programming style. From Java
9 version it support modular programming style. From Java 21 version it
supporting procedure programming style. Nameless class name unnamed class
programming unnamed class programming is also it is supporting. So in coming days it will also support scripting style
also towards the scripting style Java is moving. So finally got clarity here right. What is the difference between
Java and Python both are multiaradm programming languages.
Python supports scripting style. Java doesn't support scripting style. Java is used for developing business application
and Python is used for developing data science application background of this business application. This is the
conclusion about what is Java, what is difference between Java and Python. Now I'm requesting you explore in the
YouTube or Google type differences between Java and Python. You will get a big list. Make a notes. Can you take it
as an assignment today? The first assignment I'm giving you today what is difference between Java and Python you
have to list out and come okay now so leave the two page I mean one four lines of the gap what is Java under that you
have to write the statement and then differences between Java and Python that differences the assignment you have to
complete and come tomorrow can I check your notes checking notes I tomorrow I don't come I
don't check don't worry okay it is my responsibility to give you information
working on that or not working on that that is up to you. If you work given assignment you will get more knowledge
if you don't work you are not getting the knowledge your friend get knowledge and he's moving one step ahead and he will get the job and you'll become a
follower to him. So given assignments compulsory are to complete and come clear my point what is Java completed
difference between Java and Python completed tomorrow we are going to launch our first application in Java
hello world program. Okay. Now, hello world program old style. Hello world program Java 21 style. Both styles we
are going to learn in tomorrow class. Okay. Thank you. That's all for today class. Hope you all enjoyed
students. Any questions?
previously. Previously okay
attending morning sessions. Okay. But my seniors, my superenav
you can get job. Happily you will get the job. Java side happily you can get job easily you can get job. Okay
one minute one. Let me take one minute. That's what I'm telling buddy. With the Java you can understand complete
programming also you will understand also you'll get job easily. Okay. Now what
is what is Java? Java is a platform independent multiaradm programming
language. Okay. Now you go to Google search what is the difference between
Java and Python. Make a list here. They will give you listener somewhere in the Google you'll find the article. Write
down all points and come. Okay. Clear. Sir
classes. No sir. Which is this? You have completed
classes. You want videos, huh? Yes sir. Okay. I gave admin number now.
Admin number I gave you now. Okay. Write down this number.
Yeah, take this number. He will share you WhatsApp link and you can join.
Can you ask outside
WhatsApp WhatsApp WhatsApp
just send a message please share previous classes videos
same
same whatever you what you can create
if you want inheritance you have to define the class understood I'm saying from Java 21 you can create Java program
without class but you want object Inheritance means what? Object oriented style. Object oriented style means you
have to create program with class only. Understood.
Third class.com
new batches Hyderabad
register. Okay. Register
any register now
8 p.m. night
Okay.
2 p.m. online.
choice. There's no problem. Okay.
New browser.com.
register.
Join. Okay.
subject
department. Okay. Full stack admission
bachelor
Hello students, any questions?
Yeah. Can you please click on raise hand button so that I can give you
talking permission? Mic permission.
Hello sir, can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So my question is you you said that Python also is a multi- um you
know it supports all the multiaradm as uh as such with java right yes
so maybe in the coming years what if see python is already having all the capabilities of mathematics and um you
know extraction of data science right so will it also try to replace Java like
meaning like it will it will it also come with a business uh level of uh
for developing business applications security security related API lot of stuff required that is not there in
Python. So business applications development Python will be will Python
cannot be used. Okay, got it sir. Thank you. Yeah, another question I had before we um and
we'll go with the mute. So um will will you be will you be teaching or will it
come in the back end where you know if I'm accessing a page there are different
you know status code right like example like page not found some HTTP error all that you will cover or um
part of Java advanc faculty will cover. Oh I see okay Java is standard only standalone related
I will cover. Okay. And you also said that Java 9 is
more of modular, right? Can you give me some examples, sir? Coming classes, I'll
Okay. That's what I'm telling you. Hurry. You are ignoring the current discussion and you are always thinking about future.
Understood? Yeah. Uh so please be patient and think about
current discussion and when time comes I will explain. Our course is 3 months. Sure sir. Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah sir. Hello sir. Yes ma'am. Sir first of all thank you so much sir.
Actually college graduation last year. Okay.
Okay.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Other students. Hi. Hi sir. Tell me
is completely different. Okay. Okay. Professional
Java and 100% assistance.
Okay. Okay.
He will give you clarity. Okay. Okay. Yeah.
Right. Any other students? Any other questions?
So no. Hello sir. Good morning sir. Good morning sir. Sir sir a small doubt
sir. When you give a PDF class notes sir because uh I you teach all topics. Okay
sir. I'm not writing notebooks. I writing sir I I writing some important s.
No don't write important. Everything is important. Whatever I'm doing. No sir. Sometime you not writing
today writing what is Java you full explanation what is Java why Java
why what history everything but uh some notes because practice in room sir
that's why I'm asking sir that's what I'm saying nana whatever I am dictating in the class everything you
should write okay I will sir but don't expect immediately because if
I share people will not write notes. I want you write notes then only you can understand.
Yeah, I understand and writing sir but uh uh your notes that's why ask
that's what I will share it but first you write notes along with me. Okay. Yeah. Yeah sir.
Yeah coming days I will share but not now. Okay. Okay sir. Thank you sir. Okay students all your questions clear?
J it is offline come online. Okay. If you want you can come to
sirenior.
Okay.
Okay. Okay, sir. Okay, sir.
Okay. Okay.
That's what I'm telling. There is no evaluation process. Okay. You have to evaluate by your own.
Okay sir. You are not up to the mark.
Correct. I need to evaluate. It is not a school to I evaluate. You have to evaluate yourself and you have to
correct yourself. True. True sir. And whoever replying in the classes from chat window and also in
the class we will pick up them and uh if any requirement we will send for the placement center.
Thank you. Thank you sir. Okay now. Okay sir. Thank you. Okay.
Yeah. Yes. Tell me. Uh hello sir. Uh good morning first of
all and thank you for your lecture sir. Thank you. It was a very good experience. I'm from Maharashtra sir.
Okay. Uh sir I have doubt uh related to career. Sir I am currently in 8th
semester of BTC engineering computer science. Okay. And I got internship offer from Pune
for 3 months. Uh so sir should I go with the fullstack course or should I join
internship at Pune? Uh internship are you you are you paying
any money for them or no? No no no sir. No no no other money sir. Okay. As part of internship what their
training what the timings uh uh sir timing is from 10:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. Okay. Up to 11:00 at least complete core java
from me. Okay sir. Okay sir. Because the core java knowledge I'm giving it's for lifetime. You will not
get anywhere outside. Okay sir. Uh means uh I should only go with core java course. uh if if you go
for internship first you join core java and other stuff based on your free time if required you
join otherwise ignore if you are getting everything from that internship then here this knowledge is not required okay
but cjava knowledge what I'm giving you will not get outside okay sir okay sir I will join Java
everybody feels that core java is not required for java is less topic but actually java has a huge content
okay sir okay sir okay so miss java test. Yes.
Hello sir. Yes sir.
Only project. Okay.
Okay.
subject. Okay. Main subject we will teach. You can attend the classes
without doing payment. After you feel comfortable with my teaching style, teaching subject if I am up to the mark
to you, you can do the payment and confirm the admission. Okay. Okay, sir. Okay, sir.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay sir. Thank you sir. Okay. Okay.
Any other questions guys?
Hi sir good morning. Good morning ma'am. Uh sir actually I'm currently working so
it is bit difficult for me to join the 9:00 a.m. batch. So is there in upcoming 7 a.m. batch?
Uh 7 a.m. batch will take uh 2 months time. Okay.
So if if uh evening 6:00 possible?
Uh no sir like my work will get extended till 7 p.m. okay or else you know you recording also
providing now better you choose for recording. Okay okay okay sir sir uh just one more
query. So I'm currently working as an automation tester sir Java with selenium.
Okay. So I just want to brush up all my Java skills. Okay. So will this course will be enough for
that? Yeah enough. So you want to continue selenium side or you want to go development side?
Uh I'm planning to go development side. Okay. Development means you have to take full stack Java. You want to continue
only testing side means for Java submission.
Okay. Okay sir. Sir you will you will cover data structures. uh data structure
75% I will cover not full full data structures mean separate course you have to join
okay okay sir okay
thank you guys see you all tomorrow we'll answer remaining questions tomorrow okay
okay okay sir thank you sir

