ript


right? Good morning everyone. So what we are discussing last class?
Last class we have understood what is Java, why Java, who invented
Java, what are the different types of applications we can develop by using Java, difference between Java and Python
and also we understand also we understood how to install JDK software.
These are the points we have learned. So by yesterday class completed five days we got full-fledged idea overview on
Java language Java concept introduction to fullstack Java we got clarity
fullstack Java means complete course list for a developing a project. Okay.
Next by end of fullstack Java completed you will get you will acquire all the
skills required for developing a project. So that in company you will not depend on any other person to add or
modify the project any layer of the project. Next different courses available in fullstack Java we got the
list. The fullstack Java is divided into five modules. Java module cappo I
already started class started then why you are talking
what you are discussing yesterday I told you you should have common sense right you are not animals
animals sir human animal I tell me are you human
no human means you have heart and brain Right?
So respect your class. When you don't respect your class, what you can get from the class? Nothing.
When you go to temple, you should leave your chapels outside. Respect your God. When you come to the class, respect your
class. Have the presence of mind in the class. I came to the class for learning. So I should focus only what Har is
asking. Why? I have to respond to Har not to wor next day to me.
Every day this is a lesson to you. First I should motivate you every day. Today is the fifth sixth day.
First day and okay. Second day is okay. Till continue the same day means
huh. So how many modules are there as part of fullstack Java? Five modules. First module Java module. Second one is
database module. Third is UI module. Fourth one is DevOps module. And fourth,
fifth one is what? Cloud computing, cloud server module. All right. And next
uh as part of this course, which module you are learning? Java module. Complete
Java module of only core Java. Only Core Java. Here we are learning only Core Java. Then we got clarity on Core Java
course details. What is Core Java? Why are you learning Core Java? As part of core Java, what are the different
concepts you are learning? Java divided into how many I mean core Java syllabus divided into how many units, how many
days it will take or how many months it will take, what is our start date, what is our end date, per per day, how many
weeks per day class will be there, right? And how many hours we are spending the time in the class? What is
the style of learning? Listening style or discussion style. Discussion style. What the meaning of discussion style? I
will ask questions. You have to respond in the class. You should not silently sit in the class and should not watch.
So keep on reply to the questions I am asking so that you will fast quickly understand and fast quickly you can
grasp and feeling confident to understand next topics. You will feel comfortable for next coming topics. Uh
then uh if you want recordings you can get recordings for that extra payment you
have to do. Right? I am not recommending recordings. Don't take recordings. recordings will make you lazy and
postpone the content learning and finally you will fail and your friends will get the job. uh last class last
yesterday I went to the office on our office main office stop we have some uh uh you know host so there one student
has seen me run down towards downward I mean down floor and met me and told sir I got job sir hey in this recision time
how did you get job because of your subject sir because of your depth knowledge somehow I got the interview
call and I managed interview call I got interview call in interview got good impression on my subject the way you
taught the same way I explain to the interviewer. So if you learn Java thoroughly what I am telling there is a
recession no recession doesn't matter. You know generally people are saying that recision recision recision no jobs
no jobs no jobs how many jobs you need one job for one job how many companies
are there so many recision means all companies are closed still software industry companies are running or not
then why you are listening negative words negative statements negative news in the market recision there let it be
there who will be removed from the company is company removing all employees no Company is removing only
unskilled employees only but skilled employees are there. Many of my students
never lose a job. Some of the students are losing job who are lazy fellows by
luck they got the job. They will be terminated at some point of the time. If you do hard work along with me learn the
subject thoroughly everything you understood what I explained you practice once you get the job you never look
back. You will sustain in your company and slowly slowly company people started realizing you are not just a fresher you
have so solid depth knowledge you have any task you can handle that confidence they will get so it is your
responsibility be active in the class be motivate every day you yourself motivate
who will motivate you every day is anybody coming and sitting you next time and asking please eat food nana motivating
when you are eating food by your own why don't you study by your own why don't to focus in the class by your own. Who
should motivate every day? Are you kids? Okay. If you are a kid then you know mother should motivate you. Eat food,
eat food. So change your attitude. You are in paid not for time pass. You are here for
setting your career. How many months you have to hard work? Just three months. Come here. It's not class right college.
Why you asking permission? Huh? Now tell me it is not your college.
You are taking special admission year trying to get the special training for you get the job. It is your
responsibility to motivate by your word. You have to study by your word. You should feel tomorrow. Okay. Tomorrow har
will ask me some questions in the class. If I don't answer how how much a sad feeling he will get.
Am I right or not? If you are not answering tomorrow, I'll feel so sad. I will cry. Paka
that much hard work I'm doing for you who will prepare why I need to prepare all these questions here every day after
going to home why I'm preparing questions for you it's a time waste for me know
I'm expecting you study and focus in the class and learn that's why I'm working hard for you so you should also work
hard are catching my point huh tell me now what is your target your target is
learn whatever I am teaching you in the class sincerely Start from the basics.
It is a small point or difficulty point or least bother. Once one point came to
your book means from there it should come to your brain. You should remember next day you should answer. Always
remember tomorrow you should visualize. Today class completed. Tomorrow Har will
ask me all these questions in the class. I should be the first person to answer.
Clear my point. Uh I should impress Har. Harish should teach the class by looking
at me. Faculties are having one uh what do you call a weakness.
Generally we don't follow the entire class. We will follow one or two
students from the girls side two three students. From boys side two to three students we will follow. If you reply
the answer then we'll go for next point. Okay. So entire class we don't focus.
You should be the first person to grab my attention and when I ask the question
my eyes should come to you. Ah come on you tell me. Ah you gave answer right I'll go next point. If you miss the
class suddenly some reason I should not teach important points for inh in that
class. You should be that much active in the class that much alert in the class
that much you should motivate me. If you are learning more more content I am ready to give you more more content. Am
I college lecturer? Do I have any uh what do you call limited syllabus to
teach like in college? No. As much as you can receive that much knowledge I
will give. My brainy Java aka as much as you have the capacity of
receiving that much I will transfer. 19 plus years of Java knowledge
experience I have. So that much knowledge if you want then please try to come back please try to practice at home
and come back with the knowledge what we learn yesterday that's what my request every day okay now and once you come to
the class you should not speak to your friends once I start the class you should focus only on my lecture so how
many units are there in core java five units and then day four we have just done some revision and I think we have
just discussed python java comparison okay and yesterday we got clarity on What is Java? All the people tell me
what is Java? Java is a platform independent
multiaradm programming language. Why Java is called multiaradm programming language? Because it supports different
styles of programming. What are the styles? It is supporting four styles. What the four styles? object oriented
programming, functional programming, modular programming,
data oriented programming. Okay. So it's supporting five four types of programming. That's why it is called
modular programming. Huh. I mean multiaradm programming language. Object oriented programming supporting from
which version? 1.0. Functional programming. Eight version. Modular programming n
version. data oriented programming 21 version onwards. Of course, earlier
version also actually from Java 15 version only it is supporting data oriented programming but the term came
into market from Java 21 actually Java 1415 only supporting data oriented
programming. Okay. Uh now who invented Java? Okay. Let's answer all these questions quickly. What is Java
completed? Why Java is called multiaradm programming? Understood. Where can we find that Java is a multiaradm
programming language statement? Because this is the first time in the
market I am using this word means no one in the market saying Java is a multiaradm programming language. No
YouTube, no article, no faculty, no one because always I wish to teach latest
version. Once new version is coming, I will upgrade to the new version and that new version terminology I will use in
the next batches. So that's what my style. So I have to prove to the people I have to prove to the people uh where
multiaradm term is there where where is there do you remember go to open jdk not
v open jddk.org openjdk.org RG website and which Java
feature article we have to read 445 445
feature article if you read you'll find it okay next who invented Java James in
which year Java development is started 1991
in which year Java is released 1995
uh now the question is can we use that Can that was that version used?
Answer is no. The version released in Java, the version released in 1995 is
just a beta version means for just a testing purpose. In 1996, the original
version Java 1.0 released for a developing project. So totally how many years you ought to remember? Three. 1991
development started. 1995 beta version released first version beta
version released. 1999 1996 Java 1.0 is
released for projects development. Okay. Now next why Java is invented
for supporting platform independency for developing internet application. Why
Java needs platform independency for a developing internet application? Uh for
developing internet application. Why internet applications required platform independency?
68. Why why internet
application need why does internet application need
platform independency? Because internet application must execute throughout the
world in a different computers with a different operating systems. So it
required platform independency. Repeat once again why internet application need platform independency. Internet
application means it has to download and execute in a different computers with a
different operating system. So it needs what? Platform independency. Okay. Next.
What is a platform? Not why sorry. This is what is a platform? A platform is
nothing but an environment in which a program is loaded and executed. Nothing
but OS. OS is the platform. Uh what is platform dependency?
If a program cannot execute in different operating system, then we call it as
what? Platform dependency. Come on. Come on. You are again listening. Try try some words. What is platform
independency? If a program is executed in a different operating systems, we
call it as platform independency. Uh tell me the examples of pro platform
dependent C, C++ program. Uh tell me what is the example of platform
independency? Java, Python, Net, PHP, HTML all are comes under what platform
independence programming languages. Uh next tell me what are the different types of applications we have in IT
industry. Two types of applications are basically two types of applications. Standalone applications and internet
application. Standalone application is also called desktop application. Internet application is also called web
application. uh desktop applications are again different type are there. Internet
or web applications are again different types of applications are there. So let us list out all. First one is what?
Desktop. Second one is web. Third one is enterprise. Fourth one is distributed.
Fifth one is interoperable. Uh these are the five types of applications you are developing as part of core Java,
advanced Java and frameworks in the company. Raja what that number one desktop
applications web applications enterprise applications distributed applications interoperable
application these five applications development only you are learning as part of our fullstack Java course
mobile applications gaming applications robotic applications testing applications uh big data Hadoop spark
applications we are not teaching they are separate courses if you want to join you can join Right but don't join money
based and time based no jobs otherwinda some people are planning to go for
selenium to learn someone maybe guided you wrong selenium also it's again full
stack big package you have to learn okay and if you join selenium selenium
background is what core java core java plus selenium or python plus selenium in
place of core java we can also use what python On top of core, Java, Python, you are learning selenium. Selenium programs you
are writing, selenium scripts you are writing just with selenium you cannot get job. Again we have to learn so many
other APIs you have to learn. So testing side also full stack is there full framework is there. Uh if you choose a
testing your job and if you are move to testing field feeling that no coding is there that is olden days no coding is
there but nowadays full-fledged coding is there. uh slowly slowly you will realize that ar Java development is more
easier than this testing frameworks to learn that's why my sincere request is
you learn core Java in place of selenium you learn advanced Java in place of selenium next level framework learn
spring boot and microservices Java day by day by day becoming more easy more
simplified way so that's why continue the development side so that second advantage is you can get job faster than
testing side and after getting job you will get more package fast growth in the development side than testing side come
right so don't go for testing side try to continue selenium side I mean Java
side only don't change your decision if any of your friends are telling or testing is easy then who told Java is
the tough development is tough that is olden days selenium is easy but now same package is there don't change your mind
continue development so that more package you will get for what type type of application development Java is used.
Enterprise application uh what type of application Python is used? Data science
and machine learning application. What is the difference between enterprise application and data science
application? Enterprise application means the complete application that bring the business functionality to the
client. Uh whereas enterprise I mean data science application is not a complete business application. It is a
data processing application. What a data processing application. So background of
business application data processing you want then you have to use data science. Uh then what are the different softwares
we required to develop compile and execute a Java program. Huh. What are
there? Uh editor software JDK software command prom software. What is the use
of editor software for developing and type and save Java program? Uh next what
are the different types of editor softares we have for Java three number one basic editor Notepad advanc editor
edit edit plus and IDE Eclipse what are the differences differences between them
if you use
which question I have repeat answer
which
Sachin Kiti are you there? When you ask the questions please
respond first. Uh enterprise application means complete
application. Did you attend yesterday class?
Uh okay. Enterprise application means complete application. YouTube complete
application. Amazon complete application. So complete application you are developed for one company business
operations then we call it as enterprise application.
Okay. Background of this enterprise application data processing and
generating recommendations is called what? Data science application.
Right. Uh read yesterday notes one more time.
Uh what are the differences between them? Basic editor Notepad doesn't give you any help, no information. Everything
you should only start from zero. Advanced editors edit plus will provide
some help. Okay. Syntax highlighting will be there. Compilation execution shortcuts will be
there. IDE will provide the complete help for developing projects using
Notepad. We will develop basic program using edit plus also we will develop
basic programs only using IDE we will develop complete big project understood
big project we will develop with lot of other softwares connection suppose if I
wanted to develop a project I need to connect to the database I need to
connect to the server software I need to connect to the tools GitHub log 4j maven
so different softwares I need to connect to develop my project. This entire connectivity in a easy way and
developing big projects in a simple way and lot of code help less less type more
choose so much of options will be there in edit plus fast sorry so much of
options will be there in Eclipse IDE fast development will be there notepad
zero help edit plus somewhat help will be there IDE full help fast development
will be there and less typing more choosing will be there. Everyone understood? Now all the people decide
which editor I should use. IDE ID. Come on. Shall I start working from
Eclipse program? Let's typing. You don't need to type anything. Abraadra a
you can just say one command command one mantra. Control space come. Control space enter. Again control space enter.
Again control space enter. And how many fingers required to work? Only three fingers. one control space enter left
side little finger and this index finger and then uh right hand index finger and
control space enter control space enter your project is ready happy now if I use Eclipse you'll become
what control space enter developer okay uh interviewer will give you
Eclipse and laptop for developing programs or white paper to write program
uh Who is white paperapper? Which editor is white paper? Notepad. If you start your journey with the notepad, complete
picture, complete knowledge you will have in your brain. So interview you can confidently face and answer questions in
the interview. Let us start from zero. Uh next just by installing JDK software,
can we compile and execute Java programs? No. Why?
Because compiler and JVM softares to run first of all they have to open and
available. Uh compiler and JVM softares are CUI based.
We cannot run them individual. Then what else we need? We need
uh uh we need command prompt. Okay. Next. Why do we need command prompt
software to compile and execute a Java program? uh compile uh compiler software
and JVM software are CUI based software they can run only in command prompt. Uh
then what are the differences between C1 and GUI? CUI stands for console user
interface. Their their user interface for running the program is console. Console means command pro. GUI uh they
have their own is interface their own window. 99% of business applications are what
application gu
and command prompt required right 99% of your business applications are GUI not
CUI how can we download and install JDK software from Google
okay know oracle.com Google go to Google and
JDK download and install. Can we install JDK software in the default path?
Answer. Answer. Can we can we install JDK soft in the default
path? No. No. Yes. Can we install? Yes. Then why did you
change installation path to CJDK21 while working with edit plus? We will
have problem because of program files. Understood? What is the meaning of Java home? Java home means installed
directory home. Home directory Java home. Where Java software is installed?
CJ JDK21 is called Java home. Can you how can you confirm that Java software
is installed and ready to use? Open command prompt and run Java C command.
Okay. Now, so these all the points we have discussed yesterday. Hello brother. By today we have completed 85 questions.
Oh my god, such a wonderful learnat. Okay,
Durvesh are you attending today first class?
Did you attend yesterday class?
Uh these are the revision. Okay. Yesterday what we have learned I just
gave revision. Clear my point. I have not started today class 8. This is a
revision. Huh? Come. Every day first 10 minutes we will conduct exam on yesterday class.
Correct. All people are okay now. Every day first 10 minutes are wasting on yesterday
class. No problem. No problem. No problem.
Where can we get these notes? Probably
today is a first class for you also.
Yeah. Only asking question not responding. No already attended. Then why you are asking where did you get the
notes? Ankosh
is it today first class?
When people are asking questions let me know first. Is it first class or second class? Okay. Huh? You want only
collections? Don't want other chapters as part of core Java. You want only
collections
and then why you are focusing only on collections?
Okay. Collections covered and other topics also covered. Whatever required
for passing Java exam, everything will be covered. Okay.
Uh today is the sixth class weekend class and thank you so much for
attending today class. Why I'm saying thank you
today weekend no Saturday and holiday but still you are ignoring your you know
enjoy day and come to the class. Nice to see you uh essential statements and Java
first program. Okay, this is what we are learning today class. Ready? Okay, take it.
What is our syllabus we are following? What is Java? Why Java? Who invented? What are the soft installing? And then
now today take a essential statements to develop
Hey one second here. Yesterday we have not written notes for downloading. No shall I give few points right as part of
notes quickly. Quickly we'll write. Okay. Uh online students who missed the yesterday
class if it is a first class for you please follow the link give a share by the admin.
You will get previous class recordings and notes there.
Uh what the first step here quickly tell me. Open browser.
Which browser? Your wish. Open browser.
type or search
JDK download.
Click Java downloads.
Click Windows
or Mac OS based on your operating system.
Uh, next.
Next. Click on exe file
or DMG file for Windows people. EXE file for Mac OS
people DMG file link
then JDK software is
downloaded. Downloading is completed. Then installation. Click on
JDK.exe. Uh Mac OS people. I hope you know how to install your software in your systems.
I don't know. I didn't use Mac. So I don't know. If you are Mac users, you
know how to install software. You follow it. Uh ninth eighth point.
Click yes. In Windows, you will you will be given yes. Then click next.
Uh then click change.
Change path to
C col/ JDK-21. Uh you just remove that program files
Java carefully remove
/ program files / Java.
come later.
Same steps here. Have you installed any software in your Mac?
Uh same steps follow. There is no different steps for Java. Uh next.
Click okay. After changing the path, you have to click on okay. Click okay. For uh Mac
OS, you don't need to change the path. This step is not there in the Mac. Just follow the regular software installation
style. Click okay.
Now next click next.
Click I think last is finish or close.
Close I guess. Close now. Finish or close? I didn't remember.
J installation is complete.
The home directory
the home directory double quotes java
home. So officially we call home directory as what? Java home is
double quotes C/ JDK-20.
Uh test whether JDK is running or not.
What do you do? Open new command prompt.
How to open new command prompt? Press
window key. Hello. You know where is window key? On keyboard. Keyboard. Press window key and
type cmd.
Press enter. Window key. Press. Type cmd. Press
enter. Command prompt is open. Uh here run
type and run the command Java C.
Type Java C. Press enter. Okay. So if you
if you see different options to run Java C
it means JDK is installed and running
successfully.
Anjen loop kernat
it will not set again to program files. Maybe you are doing some mistake.
Yesterday I shown you know in my system it not happened right.
Oh that is different. path is different. Okay,
what you are asking is different story that I'll explain the next class.
Which version Windows you are using? GI
Windows 11. Uh which JDK you have installed?
Which version JDK?
Uh then it should come. Not coming means it's not installed in your system. Check once.
Uh next let's go for programming. Now essential statements.
Essential statements to develop
compile and execute a Java program.
Shake, what error you are getting.
Your wish anything you can download 17 or 21 your wish.
Then you're saying error comes
ready and tell me where I have to develop program notepad. Now tell me how to open
notepad. Start window key start uh type notepad.
I should open notepad now. Start type open notepad. Notepad is open. Then next what to do? Close.
Open. Close. No. Open. Then next. What should I do? I should type the program.
For what purpose you are typing program? Any program we will type for performing some operation. And finally print
result. Not uh to print result. I should have print statement.
Okay, all the people stop asking questions and listen what I'm saying. First focus on today class but forget
about past. We'll come back again. Uh now I open notepad. In notepad my target
is writing a program. To write a program I need one print statement in a C
language. The print statement name is C uh print F. In C++ the print statement
is C. In Java the print statement is
system.out dot print l of which what
message you want to print that message you have to write hello. If you write hello directly it is a wrong way of
writing. Hello means it's a text. The text message you have to write inside
double quote not single quote double quote single quote means only one character double quotes means what?
Multiple characters. Point number one we are writing program to perform some operations and printing some message on
console. For printing message Java print statement is print ln. Actually there
are three print statements in Java. Print print ln printf. How many totally?
Three. What the three? Print print ln print immediate question then what is
the difference between these three Monday class everything we cannot understand today now so first we are
understanding print ln then what is the difference between these three print statements we will discuss on Monday
okay so the first print statement I'm using what print ln what is the full statement of print ln I cannot use just
a print ln I have to write system outprint ln sir why I cannot write just
to print ln why should I write system.out what is system what is out I don't understand first you explain
Monday class understand my point everything I cannot explain today okay first I am asking you
walk uh how to walk use legs for that you have to stand and then slowly move legs if you ask why should I move legs
first move if you start move and walk then you'll slowly understand why I have to move why I have to write like this
right so first you accept what I am telling don't put so many questions and don't confuse your brain
Beginning days you should not ask why why why first you have to ask what what what how and that's all why slowly we
will add now so what is the statement I should write in Java for printing message system dot out dot print ln here
yes should be capital Java is case sensitive capital letters are considered
as a capital letters small letters are considered as small letters if you write volta compiler will not accept it
Control error. Java is case sensitive. You are very sensitive. Nowadays
boys are become so sensitive. Girlfriend say break up commit suicide.
Yes or no? Boyfriend say no or no gift today. Then what? Break up. So now boys
and girls have become too sensitive on everything. Teacher scold a little bit. You scold me I commit suicide. Father
mother scolding and beating. You scold me then commit suicide. Friends are scolding. No commit suicide. Begging.
Sorry, Raama. Sorry. Sorry. Okay. Boyfriend or girlfriend scolding going on I know sast namaskar right.
So what I'm trying to tell you who is important for your life. If those people
are something scolding you then you are getting what sensitive and getting hurted and getting wrong decisions.
People who are spoiling your life, those people are scolding, feeling missing and
then started begging them. Change your mindset. Okay. Who is important in your life? Only two people.
Number one, parents. Number two, teachers. After these two remaining people, parents and teachers are there
in your life. Enough remaining people are there or not there. List who are coming going. They are just a time pass
people coming and going. Parents and teachers and your siblings are only permanent in your life. Remaining all
people are just a time pass people. After marriage, wife and husband and children are permanent.
Okay. Now right. So totally five people are permanent in your life. As of now only two people. So don't focus on
unnecessary. Nana air paid is the most dangerous place. So online students no
problem. Offline students be careful. offline students you come to Hyderabad
to fall in love with Java.
Understand my point? Suddenly your hostile friend who is unknown or known
person uh he's keep on talking to his his lover saying that baby that this and
finally by seeing one day two day three day then you will get influenced
and also use also stopped studying Java uh starting another Java what is that
search for the lover okay and then different activities now different ideas
you started implementing your life will be completely spoiled. So only focus on
Java. Don't focus on other things. Okay? Come back. Java is sensitive. Okay? Very
sensitive. Upper case you have to use as upper case. Lower case you have to use as lower case. You know system outp
is only first letter S is capital. Remaining all letters are small. Uh some
people after this much insisting also some people blindly will write small and come tomorrow sir program not working
out why not working how do I know okay you told as you tell as you told I have
typed then yesterday in my system worked in your system not working and you have shown your talent now so what you did
mistake you have to identify okay capital you have to write now my question is tell me is Java scripting
language or objectoriented programming language
uh object oriented. If it is a scripting language, I can directly write the statement in the program. But it is
what? Objectoriented. In a object oriented programming language, if you want to write any
statement that should be part of one method. What concept? Method. Method.
Method is nothing but function. Someone someone is performing some operation is called what method. Uh so repeat once
again. I want to print message. What the statement I have to use? System.out.print
length. Can I place this statement directly in the Java file? No. You must
place inside where method in Python I can write directly because Python is a
scripting language. In Java can I write directly? No. Java is a objectoriented
programming language. Then where I should write this method? The method name is main. What the method name?
Main. Name is main. Your name is some X. But only with the name you are going
full body is there. You have full body. Eyes, ears, hands, legs, name, height,
weight, lot of things are there. Just with name not there. So same way this method is also just with name cannot
exist. It has some other parts that is what? public static y main of string
array arcs. This is the full syntax of the main method. Open bracket closed
bracket. Whenever you say method, it should have boundary. This is my begin place and this is my end place. Boundary
should be there. If you choose this room, this room has a four walls. Now uh this is the start, this is the end, this
is my boundary. So in Java, how can you specify boundary? by using open bracket
and closed bracket. So tell me what is the name of the method? Main. What is the full syntax of the main method?
Public static wide main of string uh string. What we pronounce this square
bracket array? What do you pronounce? Array. Now come again string.
Array. String array asks full form. And then immediate question sir I don't understand what is public what is
static? Why? Why? Why you are written string array asks? Huh? Monday class. Super. Okay. It's a Monday
class. So just now you now accept it. Oh, if I wanted to write a main method,
I have to write all these words. Okay. Oh, Java is case sensitive. Upper case,
lower case. Tell me public keyword, static keyword, vid keyword, all
keywords must be in lower case. If you write uppercase, lower case as you like
compiler will not accept. Java compiler will throw error. Public static vid all
are lower case. Even main name is also in lower case. String yes capital
letter. Okay.
Okay. Now it is not keyword. It is a name, class name, program name. Okay. I will tell you that later. Uh next
question I'm asking everyone try to answer. I wanted to write one statement in Java. That statement I have to place
inside where method. Okay. Java is a functional programming language or
procedure programming language or object oriented. If it is a C style procedural
programming structure programming language directly I can write what function. But Java is object oriented.
Object oriented means everything should be inside where class
keyword following by class name. Uh this is my first program. Now you can write any name A open bracket close bracket
any any single letter or multi-letter word multi-word letter you can use A B C
D X Y Z anything you can write but I'm taking some meaningful name first program I'm writing first program. Uh so
tell me now if you want to develop Java program every Java program must starts
with a class because Java is a objectoriented programming language.
Second inside Java program class I have to write main method inside main method
I have to write logic statements. So if you want to develop, compile, execute,
print some message on the console. How many essential statements are required?
Three essential statements. Number one, class. Number two, main method. Number
three, system.out.print length statement. Develop, compile, execute,
print. For a development purpose, just a class is sufficient. For compilation
purpose, just a class is sufficient. But for execution purpose, main method is
required. For printing purpose, SON is required. Are you catching my point?
Just for develop and compile just class is sufficient. Main method SOP not
required. For running purpose main method is required. For printing purpose SOP is required. So totally in a program
how many works we are doing? Four. Number one develop compile execute print
some message on the console to perform these four operation. How many essential
statements required? At a minimum how many statements I have write? Three. Number one class main method sll.
Everyone understand? Uh where I have to write what class directly in the Java file where main method inside class
where snn inside main method. Clear my point right? Write down these points. Check check
per developing comma compiling
comma executing and
printing.
printing some message
or value from a Java program.
We need
three Essential statements.
Okay. Now let me write this sentence in another
way. You don't change. Okay. Java provides
three essential statements you don't change
for developing, compiling, executing and printing some message or value from
value where on console console means command prompt from from a Java program.
What are they? They are head. They are
number one class. Number two main method.
Number three capital system dot out dot print ln
semicolon. In between write hyphen hyphen means some value.
Karthik did you go anywhere in the middle of the explanation
then what is your doubt if you ask explain again what point I
have to explain how do I know ask your doubt no where did you get confused ask
main wide I didn't write main wide
And I didn't write Map Vap
focus. Okay. When you're looking at screen, focus. Uh tell me what the purpose of class.
Right. The class is essential.
The class is essential. put class in double quotes. The class is essential
because
Java is an look at here. Can I write what
language
Java is an objectoriented programming language.
Every program in Java must be started with
must be started with a class.
Else we will get compile time error.
The compilation time we will get error.
Next
we write main parenthesis method. Whenever I say method that should be
followed by parenthesis.
The main method is essential.
Because for running or executing
a class
main method is required.
The main method is the
initial point of class logic execution.
Every Java program execution is
started with main method.
Note, if a class doesn't have main method
There.
Can you fill the statement? If a class doesn't have main method, what happened?
After development, I have to do two more activities. What is that? Compile and execute. Can I compile this class
without main method? Don't show your talent. Huh?
Already I told you the statement clearly here. Main method is required for
running or executing. Did I mention compilation? Can I compile a class
without main method? Yes sir. For compilation purpose just class is
sufficient. Main method is not required. Main method is the uh main method is the
initial point. Underline initial point of class logic execution.
It is the initial point of class logic execution not for compilation.
the initial point of class logic execution underline that that means if a class doesn't have main method what I
cannot do what I can do we can compile it but we cannot
but we cannot execute
it's very very important point comp interviewer definitely asked the
question can we compile a class without main method. Answer is yes. Can we execute a class without main method? No.
Uh next the system.out print. Can I write shortcut sopn?
Uh write shortcut snn already there you written system.out
SOPn is essential because in Java
in Java for printing any message or output
on console. Console means command prompt.
They must use
system.outorder Powder print and statement.
Note,
Java provided
three print statements.
Number one, system dot out dot print
print len print f with two hyphens.
Last chair visible font font visible
using print we can print only one value print and one value print f has a syntax
with two values two hyphens means two values you have to pass one hyphen means one value then what is the difference
between these three points we'll discuss in the next 1 2 3 Babu. one.
Clear.
Uh any doubts, confusion here, please ask.
Tell me what is the structure of the program?
The structure of a program is inside a class inside a Java. Okay.
We will start a Java program with a class.
Inside a class, we will place
main method.
Inside a main method
we will place SO as shown below. First class here what
will be there? Class name open bracket closed bracket
inside class. Observe inside class and you have to minimum provide some gap
here and inside and it should be in
where I have written open bracket. Did you notice my dear blind people?
Many people might have written bracket down. Check your friend outside
the bracket written down. Call him high blind person. very right bracket same line not next
line okay now listen carefully focus focus if you don't focus you will use
your brain finally you'll get wrong results focus on bracket should be in the same line sir in my C language I
have written next line sir that is C language this is Java no sir here also I
will write in the next line any problem no problem then you'll be called a C Java developer
developer you want to call as air developer, C Java developer, a pure Java developer, pure Java developer, high
tech developer, experienced person means you write bracket in the same line. Okay? So just follow the coding
standards and tell me next inside inside uh here you write what main method
open bracket closed bracket just we are writing syntax just a structure of the program not full syntax main method here
you write inside main method means I have to push the control inside main
method here you write what system dot outer print and semicolon
this the structure inside the class main method inside the
main method snn um after your program development completed if anybody sees your program
should be look like a vshape program
understood your program should have vshape left side you should have vshape
I don't like this structure of the program is very very
important. Indentation is very important. When somebody see your program, you should feel good. You have
some good experience in programs development. You should feel
write on that arrow marks. Whatever I'm writing on the screen, everything write in your notes.
uh completed. Shall we write a program now?
Next. Steps to develop, compile, and execute Java program.
Check. Steps to develop, compile, and execute a Java program.
steps to develop, compile and execute a Java program.
Java a Java program
development comma compilation and execution
comes under
how many steps? Guess one step are two steps are three steps are 10 steps are 20 steps are
three steps. Excellent. What the three steps? Develop
three essential statements. Uh develop second compile. Third
execute. If huh run automatically print you don't
need to tell print. What I'm asking steps two develop compile execute a Java program. How many step? Three steps.
Develop compile execute. If it is a three steps why I will give notes
already in the question answer there why extra time I'll spend and waste my time
not your time my time my time is very much valuable okay one day extra I spend
time with you and extra I'm wasting my money so if I'm spending the time there
is important point to consider tell me how many steps are there develop where you develop in your notes
development typing class main method and sll the type where you type then who will
open notepad automatically and open no right so open
notepad is one step now tell me step number one open notepad are you looking
at me are you looking at me brother when I say open notepad are you look at me don't
look at me visualize work with the av technique analyze
Realize visualize a arv technique. My style of teaching is a arv technique.
Analyze realize visualize. When I say open notepad, you should visualize ah
okay my computer. You have computer all people have laptop. Uh if you don't have
laptop this is your computer. End of the class don't take with you. Okay. Uh this computer is yours. Feel in your in this
computer I open notepad. Hey, how to open notepad? Uh, in bracket start, type
notepad. Press enter. Ah, okay. Notepad is open. Wow. Open notepad. Second step.
Close notepad. H. Now the next step. Type Java program. What the Java program
class main method s. Done. After typing your job is over. What is there? Save.
How to save? Control S. Press Ctrl S and give the file name where
Java huh as a do Java file. File name is Java. But where
in your house or my house? Where where you save?
H uh people who are from IT background you should tell already you did in your computers in your in your academics.
Where did you save? Where will you save? inside then that file where in a C drive in a C
drive where folder
bin folder excellent that's what I'm expecting answer that's what I want uh
where I save my Java program J C drive JDK bin folder isn't it in your college
your lecturer has taught you save the Java program in C JDK bin folder Okay.
After course completed in the holidays go back to your college touch him.
Are you developing Java program for JDK software? Then why you are saving in JDK folder?
You are learning Java that's why you are in this classroom not Python. Now uh so if you are writing program for JDK
software then I have to save inside JDK bin folder. Second problem if I save my
Java programs in JDK bin folder. Today I'm using which version? Java 21. After
6 months new version is coming Java 22. Then I will install 21 and I reinstall
22 and then 21 when I install along with the JDK software my programs also deleted.
Third problem after project development completed I have to deliver this project
to the client. For that enter JDK software we will send up only my Java programs Java program. How can we
separate Java software files from Java programs files?
Is it a difficult or not? So tell me saving Java program in JDK bin folder is
it right approach or wrong approach? Wrong approach. So people are teaching uh in colleges
little little you know wrong points they have injected in your mind now I'm
trying to correct those points that's why first program development I'm taking little lengy are you following IT people
noniting no problem just directly straight away I'll tell the point but IT people are already experienced Java in
their colleges in a wrong approach they have learned I have to correct that mistake that's why taking little time
don't get angry on me okay now so finally tell me where I have to save my Java program in JDK bin folder or in my
own folder our own folder because I am writing programs for my own project
development. So I have to create my own folder. So tell me what should I do first? First create the folder and then
save the program in that folder. Clear my point? Uh what is recommended way to create the folder in a C drive or in a D
drive? Having only one drive in your computer is a good idea. No operating system will
crash any time. Then you have to format the operating system. If you format
operating system means the entire C drive all the folders will be removed.
Then if you save your Java programs, your personal files or your images or
videos and audios everything in C drive when you format everything is gone.
That's why it's always recommended to have minimum three drives in your computer. C drive, D drive, E drive.
When in C drive you should have only operating system and softwares installation. In D drive, Java programs
and other courses programs in E drive backup softwares and your entertainment.
E stands for what? Entertainment. Your videos, audios, personal files, everything you have to save in the E
drive. Are you following my point? In my computer, I have like that. I will organize everything neatly, nicely in my
office also. So, C drive, E drive, uh, C drive, D drive, E drive. In C drive,
install the JDK software. Now, in D drive, I'm going to save my program. So how many substeps are there in Java
program? Development, compilation and execution. Development has how many steps? Three steps. Number one, open
notepad. Number two, typo program. Number three, save the program. Compile and execute. Tell me where will you
compile and execute? For compilation purpose, first of all, I should run compiler software. Where I will run the
compiler software? Command prompt. After develop, type and save. Then I have to open command prompt. Uh what is the step
number four? Open command prompt. All you people look at here. When I open command prompt the path is showing in
the command prompt to our project directory or to the HK directory means it is a user directory. When you open
command prompt by default it is showing to what user directory. Everyone tell me if I type here Java C my program name
first program. Java compiler software Java C searching for first program. Java
file in HK folder. Did you save in HK folder? No. Where you have saved D drive
in our own project directory? Yes or no? Uh if you want to run, if you want to
compile my Java program, I have to change the path. So in the command
prompt window means once you open the command prompt directly we should compile. First I have to change path.
Whose path I have to change? Observe there are two paths are here. C colon then users HK what is C colon drive what
is user HK directory uh you want to change from C to D drive and then change
in the D drive to directory are you following that means how many commands we have to run two commands first drive
change command second one directory change command everyone following uh repeat once again once you open command
prompt window by default it is showing the path to user directory What the
meaning of user directory? With with whose name I have login? With my name I log into my computer HK. So HK is the
user directory in your computer. You login your name will come. Uh can I compile my Java program directly here?
Let me show you the Java C first program. Ah you can say just E. Java
look at I got error file not found. A Java where in HK. So where a Java file?
I have saved in my D drive. my project directory I have to change. So how many
commands I have to run here? Two commands. First I have to change it to D drive. Uh which drive you want to change
drive colon. So because this is a drive name. So change it. And then next you
have to use the command called what? CD. What the meaning of CD? Change driver change directory. Change
directory. That directory path you have to specify here. Everyone understood? Uh so totally how many commands we have to
run? Two commands. And tell me again what are the steps we have what are the steps we must follow to develop Java
program. Step number one open notepad. Step number two
type Java program. Step number three save Java program with Java extension in
our own project directory. Repeat again. Save Java program with Java extension in
our own project directory. Uh next fourth open command from uh fifth change drive
and directory path drive and directory path. Uh now sixth step compile by using
what the command name java c execute by using java. That's it totally how many
steps are there? Six. Count again. Count again. You said
wrong answer. Now come on. Step number one, open Notepad. Uh, step number two,
type Java program. Save Java program. Open command prompt.
Change a directory drive on directory path. Huh? Compile. Compile using Java. C command.
Huh? Execute by using Java command. Totally how many steps? Seven steps. Sama Maya tell me you go to
lab or go to your laptop to develop Java program. Will you open the notes
side open notes? Look uh D
uh CD uh CD uh there are copy paste master. You want to become typist. want
to become developer developer after going after this class completed in the lab or in in your lap
when you are working on laptop if you open notes if your hand moving this side this side I'll be next and beat you
otherw ask your brain ask yourself what do you
want I want to develop one program and then develop how morning you learn
How many steps are there to develop Java program? Five steps. Seven steps. What the first step? Open notepad. Uh how to
open notepad? Ask question yourself. You yourself the interviewer. You yourself
is the candidate. You yourself is the faculty. You yourself is the student. Ask yourself. Nowadays in YouTube shots
are coming like that only. Same person asking question, same person answering. Two sides you know same person coming to
perform the dual role. This dual role I am performing for the last 20 years now it is trending in the YouTube charts and
reals. Okay. You yourself is a candidate. You yourself is the interviewer. Play interview your role.
Interview your ask you a question. How to develop a Java program? One minute. My s gave wonderful notes. Okay. Let me
open. Ah they go read the notes. Can you tell from the notes? No. Get everything
into your brain. The notes is only for future reference purpose because we are
gaj brand ambassador of gajin we will forget easily right come on write the notes
checka and we have to write the code also what the time now
10:30 oh still we have so much of time nice
huh java A Java program development, compilation, execution come under how many steps?
Seven steps number one.
H open Notepad.
How? Press window key.
Last batch one student asked, "Sir, I didn't find any window key on the monitor. Sir,
window key on keyboard." Okay. Press window key. Uh, next
type notepad. Press enter.
If you have confusion on keyboard
sometimes by listening your questions I'll feel so refreshed. Okay. Such a nice questions you will ask. Uh next
type not write type on notepad. Can you write? No. Type type java program.
Next.
Third, save this Java program
with Java extension
in your own
project direct
in bracket create directory
create new direct
give one line gap because development is complete. These three steps are comes under develop. Give one line gap
compilation execution started. Fourth step. Open
notepad. Open command prompt.
H. How to open command prompt? Same process
in place of notepad. Type cm.
Uh fifth step change
directory and sorry sir sir sir sir change drive
and directory path.
Sixth, compile,
this Java program by using the Java compiler
double quotes Java C tool. That software is called tool small software. That
buggy soft name is Java C2. Seventh,
execute this Java programmer compiled code.
Compiled program execute always compiled. Compiled
program by using the JVM.
By using the JVM what the name of the JVM? Java pool.
That's all. These are the seven steps.
If I am writing notes, I always place the most important points in box
and the steps in separate box.
Okay, if I write like this, it will be more easy for me when I'm doing revision
checka. I can revise my class and I can recolct what happened in the class.
How to change directory path using cd command?
Why you wasted that much left side space?
Digshit ready. You are only focusing on asking question. You are not using your
brain at all. Is Java C belongs to keyboard.
Is it a command to type? You keep on repeating the same question.
It is a third time or fourth time.
Uh everyone ready to help me to develop program?
That's what I'm telling Mr. running purpose only. Which key you will use? What key?
Java C is a button on the keyboard. It is a command. You should open command
prompt. Type java C. Open command
prompt. Type Java C. What key? It is a command
you have to type and press the enter key.
After command typed, what you have to do? Run. Run means enter key. Standard command.
Uh now we completed steps to develop Java program. Everyone understand today
two topics. Uh what is the first point? We completed essential statements. How many essential statements are there?
Three. What are the three class main method system outprint class is used for
developing program. Main method is used for running the program.
System.out.print ln meant for printing the message on the console. Not printing
program printing output or message on the console. Then totally how many steps
are there to develop, compile, execute? Seven steps. Now let's go for
program one. Right.
Program one develop a program to display what
to display hello world HK programming world
no hello world HK programming world so our programming world is completely
different from other people's programming world here you are becoming just Java knowledge people are experienc
people by end of the course completed you will get minimum 3 plus years of programmer
knowledge no doubt in that okay but provided you have to participate you have to have that interest of learning
if you are not having interest I cannot do anything so you are here becoming experienced fresher remember that but
for that you have to do hard work uh so pro develop a program to display HK
programming world on console uh can you develop yourself I want write
All seven steps step by one. One by one. Okay. And tell me step one. Check check right along with me. Open notepad. Uh
open. Ready. Uh second step. Write down. Write down.
Write down. Don't waste time. Write down. Write down. Open notepad.
I'm not writing shortcut there. You already know. Step number two. Type.
below program. Uh type below program.
Uh first start with look at here. Look at here. Assume this is your notepad
begin. Okay, this is a notepad begin. And then now let's keep that point in
your mind and we'll write uh class. First we have write what
class. What the name of the class? Any name you can take. But we are
choosing first program. One second. First two space programmer. First two no
space programmer. If I give space here, it will become one name or two names.
A class can contain only one name. If I give space, it become two names. Compiler confuse and throw error. Why
you are writing second name? So should not give space in between. And next F and P small letter capital letters
capital letters sir I will write small letter any problem no problem tomorrow when you come to the class where this
shut buttons backside and come any problem no problem right what people
will laugh at you know these are called coding standards so when you're writing name you will follow title case now how
you write your name first letter first word you are writing capital letter no same thing we have to follow here the
next bracket here okay writer class first program open bracket don't don't
close bracket next where you write main method some intelligent people will start
writing from here have a common sense you have to move push the cursor inside the class and
here you have to start public static v main of string array ars open bracket
write down write down don't copy from my screen you write yourself.
You know everything. Believe push main method inside the class. Don't
write parallel or outside of the class. You should get V shape.
Uh next up push the cursor inside main method and
write system dot out dot print and off. Uh where you are in
ah hk no space in between.
Wow so elegant. Write on that explanatory mark. Okay. HK
programming world.
Uh now we have opened brackets right? I have to close the bracket. Which bracket first I have to close? Main method
bracket. Where I should close? Ever wish anywhere. But you have to follow coding standard. Where I have to close exactly
down to public. Exactly down to public you have to
close. Exactly down to public you have to close. Uh where I should close a class
bracket exactly down to the class.
If you write like this then you will be called Java developer.
Understood as if you write this program as you like jigjer then you will call
developer. So you want to be Amir P developer or Java experienced developer take decision yourself.
Uh HK product you will be called. Next step. Step number three.
Uh tell me what the step number three. Save Java program. Save above program.
What the name? Save above program with the name. Don't write first. You tell me
with the name. Uh the class don't write.
Save this class with the name first. I said don't write. Don't write. Huh? First listen. Save this class with the
name first program Java. That's what you learn in your academics. Now I'm saving with the name
example. example uh
huh Java any problem
the name of the class is first program but I'm saving this Java file with the
name different name example Java any problem no problem in academics problem
because prescribed books told Java file class name must be same our faculties
are following and we Never do any experiment because S told I am doing
okay but in Amir in high dexity in Java the name can be anything
no compile time error no runtime error I will show you that save above program with the name example Java uh in the
folder where I have to save come on don D colon where I have to save
uh listen I want all the people to create the folder structure Sure like this. Everyone please focus.
You join which course? Hey full stack Java. Now your course is
what? Fullstack Java, right? In a D drive. Create a folder with what name?
FSJD. FSJD. What is FSJD? Full stack Java.
Because I'm going to handle multiple batches. So that's why I'm writing what? 01 0 1 02 03 like that. So, uh FSJD I'm
taking batch time name here 9 a.m. This is my my batch timing. Okay, FSJD
9:00 a.m. This is a 01. Okay, not 02. Okay, 7:00 a.m. I'll take first batch.
9:00 a.m. second batch 11:00 a.m. Third batch 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. Totally per day
I will handle five batches. So I am taking the batch name as 0 to FSJD 9
a.m. clear. Uh what you do now in your system you no need of all these folders
because it belongs to only one fullstack Java FSJD it will not allow because already files are open. Uh inside FSJD
you create a folder. How many courses you are learning as part of this? Many courses. The first course is what? Core
Java. Create 01 core Java CJ. Shortcut is what? CJ 01 core Java. Then second
course name is HTML. Third course name is Oracle. Fourth course name
advanc Java. Uh fifth course name spring spring boot microervices. Based on what
course you learn that course folder you create all the programs you practice as
part of that folder. So that end of the batch completed when you are going to
what do you call interview then revision will be easy for you
understood just by seeing the program your mind will get revision what you learn how you learn and what order you
learn so next in core Java I don't dump all the programs in one folder again we
will create one more folder here with the chapter name 01 which chapter we are
learning now Java basics JB shortcut we are Java basics. Okay, let me write Java
basics. Like this we are going to create the folder and organizing the files.
Everyone understand? There are some lazy people lazy people are there. They will save the programs on desktop.
If you save on desktop, how can I compile and they will come next sir? Not working
sir. Where you save desktop sir? I will slap you sir. Right. D colon FSJ DD/01
CJ/01 JB CJ means your first course 01 JB means
your first chapter this is the folder structure I want you follow sincerely strictly
do you have any class at 11:00 11:00 any class there uh shall I
continue more 10 minutes okay let's complete this program
next Monday class you will enjoy peaks mama if you practice this program in system
and come Monday Monday is a wonderful class okay super you will enjoy and
people who miss today class because of Saturday holiday enjoyment weekend enjoyment Monday they will
blooded tears they will get. Okay. Uh no no problem. Step number four. Next is
what? Compile. 1 minute. Change path. Now change
drive path or you can say 1 minute. 1 minute.
Change drive and directory path.
Hey sh. Okay. What is that? First open
command prompt. Open command prompt. Then step number
five change drive and
directory path. Uh when you open command prompt by
default it is showing C col/ users/hk.
This is the path by default showing. Now here you type d colon in bracket press
enter. What already changing
drive
uh then what you'll get D colon slash
are you okay with this detailed explanation or you want to make it shortcut
every point each point shall I explain detail way okay if you feel boring
because of this much a detailed explanation. Please let me know so that I can shortcut and uh explain you fast.
Huh. Next what I have to do
cd space where you have to change fsd fsjd
this path you have to take fsjd / 01 cj/01
jb in bracket
Press enter.
What are you doing here? Changing directory path.
If you use any YouTube video, you will complete this entire process in just 5 minutes. Installing JDK 1 minute.
writing first program 5 minutes okay so I will take more time because my class
all people are having from nonIT background so each point first day we have to spend more time going on going
on we can go fast okay don't expect first day only very super fast and then tell me what is the path you will see
here 01 FSJD / 01 CJ/ 01 JV this is the path we will
Uh step number six,
compile example Java file by using Java C tool.
What the syntax? Java C file name
compilation syntax Java C space
file name
Java C space for the file name example
Java
Everyone tell me sir when you compile this Java program will you get any compile time error? No. compiler
software will go to example do java file will come to example do java file then
it is searching for class main method there system outprint
and there close bracket close bracket is are there any your typing mistakes no
program successfully compiled uh Java program is converted into a special
format called byte code what a bite code and the bite code is saved in a new file
with what name? No class name first program.class.
Understand? So when you compile it, compiler software read the source code
available in this Java file converted into special format. What the special
format? Uh what the special format? Bite code and save here. What is available
here? Source code.
uh what it contains inclass file byte code. This is the terminology you have to remember. All right. After
compilation we will get first programclass file.
Next is step number seven. Execution.
Execute. Execute uh what I should execute source
code by coder byte code.
Execute byte code by using
by using which tool? Java tool. by using Java tool. by using JVM
or you can say by using JVM by using Java 2
and tell me what is the execution syntax?
Java space very important what I should give here byte code byte code is
available where in first programclass here first program is what no class name
so what I have to give here file name or class name class name Java space class name so java space here I should give
very very important first program in bracket don't
give dot class because internally JVM will add it
internally JVM will add dot class you don't write
only write first program and then here we will get
main method is executed
next step sll
is executed. The next step output
what output HK programming word
is displayed or printed.
Uh now tell me can I have Java file name or a class name with a different name?
Yes. If I have Java file name and class name with a different name is there any
compile time error? No. At compilation time dot class file is created with the
Java file name or with the class name? Class name. Java file name is example
class name is first program. So class file is created with what name? First program class. At execution time I
should use a file name or class name class name. Okay you have to remember these points. Let us try to run all
these steps. Now ready
everyone copied. Still writing up. heading up.
Students, everyone understood?
Okay, let us try now. Step number one, open notepad. Check. Check. I will type and show you. Open notepad and type the
class class first program open bracket closed bracket. Uh public static wide
main of string array ars open bracket closed bracket. Uh inside system dot
dot print len of double quotes hk.
Save it with any name on Java. First of all I have to create a folder. Go to D drive. Creating folder FSJD.
inside creating a folder. You know how to create a folder
inside create a folder right click new. Okay, I'm using shortcut control shift N. Shortcut for creating folder is
control shift N. Uh now here 01 JB sorry
CJ and inside control shift N 01 JV. Uh
now here you save the program with what name? Any name on Java. I'm choosing the
file name as example on Java. Save it. Okay. Now open command prompt. Open
command prompt cmd. Then directly can I compile java? C example. Java here.
No. If you try compiler will throw error. Not find file is not found. Then
what should I do? Change drive. D colon. Change directory. What the directory
name? FSJD / 01 CJ/01
JB Enter now the folder change now compile Java C
compile then go and check the folder very important always you should verify folder open open FSJD CJ JB they go what
the folder in the folder what is created first programclass So the class name is
a first program. So final conclusion can I create Java file name and class name with a different name? Yes. Next Java.
Which program I have to run? Example of first program first program with the dot class or no dot class. No dot class.
Compiler will add a dot class internally and you got output. So it will JVM JVM
will go to first program class. We'll go to main method. We'll go to SOP and
printed this message successfully. we develop, compile and execute. So today
target is installing JDK. Number two knowing essential statements. Number three knowing uh what is the steps to
develop Java program and number four developing our first program successfully. Okay. What the new points
we have learned? We should not save Java program in JDK bin folder. And we can save Java file with any name. Then
compilation time the class file name will be the class name. execution time we have to use classmail. So these are
the points you have to remember. Okay. Now so can I expect all the people will try this program in your system today.
If you got any errors those errors are coming because of only your typing mistake. So when com when you when you
get any error compiler software will show the clearly the line number. Go to that line number again check once the
typing mistake you did correct it and again compile it. Don't depend on other person. Okay. Huh? So Monday class is
completely depending on today class development. And next please don't copy this program from your notes. Don't open
notes. Open just revise your brain. What are the steps? Seven step. Step one, step two, step three. Just to develop
it. If you commit any mistakes then open the notes and refer. Okay. Now thank you. That's all for today class. Happy
weekend. Happy revision first day. Okay. Thank you. See you all tomorrow. Uh
tomorrow no Monday. Tomorrow is already
CI perform console console user interface but in Google character user interface
console user interface character user interface both are correct
books I will share now why you want I will
case not class. Capital letter is upper case. Smaller case is lower case.
Capital A is upper case. This capital H is upper case.
Okay. Now small H is lower case.
Hello students, any questions?
You want compile and execute in a same folder. So class not requd
folder structure and save and compile. So if you save in C drive no need to
change the drive only directly change the directory.
You can write any other but before
then I have I have removed that class. Okay. I have directly void and then I
have hello world. Okay. Then uh there in a error in there that uh you have not
written the class or stat you have not I'll show you that it will not work
directly some extra command you have to use okay I'll show
Thank you.
No problem. You can install anywhere. You can install Bonat.

