ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
So what we are discussing last class? Yeah, we were learning basic Java
programs development. We have started with hello world program. Then we have learned
more practice examples. Okay. As part of more examples, we got
clarity on what is the right procedure to choose the class name and also we
learn what the right procedure uh to provide how many SOPn statements. We just come to know how many SOP
statements we should write and also we understood um what is the after writing
just writing a program is sufficient or we have to do anything else after writing program we have to compile and
we have to execute we only should prepare the Java C class name J sorry Java C file name and we have to prepare
Java class name okay and you should not blindly write out uh you should not
write blindly program and just not Just feeling that output is printed. You should verify yourself is the output
printing from the program is the output printing from the program is exactly uh the output coming from uh
expected output or not. The output printing from your program is the one expected or not. So that you have to
compare. So just writing program is not sufficient. You should also think what is happening background. Okay. So if you
don't track the flow of execution then you cannot pass the exams. Okay, written test exam. If you want to pass, you
should have a clarity on what you are writing, why you are writing. If I write like this, what is happening? So simply
you have to ask one question. What am I doing? What is happening? Background.
Okay. What is always you have to ask? What am I doing? What is happening background? What am I doing? Means what?
If I write system.out.print ln, what am I doing? I am printing this message. Then what is happening background? Is
this message as it is displayed? Is this output expected by the client or a different output I'm printing that what
is happening background mind is also you should get is it clear my point right online students can you hear me
online students
Uh so today let us try to continue some more programs. Okay.
First we have learned just I want to open all programs once again. First we learned hello program means displaying
some message on console that is what our target. Okay. Second program we have learned
what is the right procedure to choose the name of the class.
That is the second program we have learned. Third program we have learned how to use multiple SOPn statements.
Okay. I should use multiple SOPn statements. Where is that?
Uh name printer with the stars. And also second point we have learned here when
you are writing program the output we are printing must match to the expected output. You should not just like that
write. Okay. Uh then third point we have learned I want to print the message one
line message in multiple lines. So if you want to move one line message to the multiple lines you have to use what
slashn slashn is the escape sequence character. Using this escape sequence character, I can move character to
multiple lines. Next, I want to print space in between the words. To print
space in between the words, you have three options. Number one, use a space bar. If I use a space bar directly, the
problem is I cannot count how many spaces I give because I cannot see. The second option is slash yes. Uh, third
option is what? Slash 80. If I use a slash, only one space is inserted. If I
use a / a tab space eight spaces are inserted. Okay. Now right. So this is
the points we discussed in last class. Now let's try to continue the next points.
Did you all type these programs in your system? So every program you have to type in
your system then only you can remember. Okay. And you will understand what you are doing. So please don't feel lazy
working in system. If you don't have laptop or desktop you can go to our lab
and you can practice there. Okay. Now write program number six.
Develop a program.
Develop a program
to display to display
your name to display your name
in the above pattern to display your name in the above
pattern. in the above pattern
by using by using
single SOPn
by using single SOPn statement.
by using single SOP ln statement.
Yeah, Arti you can unmute and ask if you if you want. Now tell me here how many
SOP statements I have written here. Now previous program how many are there?
Four. But I don't want four. I want only one. So one SOPn if you want how can I
write? I want to write one SOP ln but I want output I want four lines can you
try already yesterday some students has written that program remaining people try now I'm giving you 2 minutes time
try to develop arti Gupta
can you speak yes tell me no sir actually
can you speak louder I cannot hear you
I don't have any question right now but uh if I have question then yes give me
information uh post in the chat window I will unmute okay okay thank you
any of you newly joined today 1 2 3 4 5 okay so today class is little
difficult because we started programming yesterday and I will I will give you backup class today class just you watch
what I'm telling okay now so end of the class I'll talk to you today class end of the class I'll talk to you just you
see what you are uh what is happening now okay now
so yesterday we started programs so today class is continuation to yesterday class one or two programs we are writing
then I will give you clarity
Satya maybe you didn't use Java C command you have used Java if you use Java it will not generate
Huh? Completed. Tell me how can we bring H to the next
line? How can we display one tab space?
That means after H I have to use two escape sequence characters N and SL. Uh
after a uh slash n two slash ts after r one
slash n and three slash ts and simple right uh now let me write program help
me to write open notepad uh now type class what I have write
class uh what the name of the class name pattern
with the single sll
open bracket closed bracket. Now tell me here public static void main of
string array ars open bracket closed bracket. Uh if you wanted to write a
program you have to open notepad and type this is the basic structure of the program
class name main method. for the new students who join today. Okay. So before
this program I have taught some programs. So now to understand today class you should have only clarity on
this one point. What is that? Okay. If you want to develop a Java program I should have some template template of
the program. If you wanted to write a cycle cycle template you have to know now cycle as a handle cycle as a seat
cycle as the tides cycle as pedal. Okay we have to push that pedal like that. If you want to write a program, the basic
template of a Java program is class class name main method. This entire
syntax you have to write. So why I should write this entire syntax? I will explain. I didn't explain it. Now inside
main method I should write one more statement called system.out.print
ln system.out.print ln. Uh this means for this this
statement is meant this is a program. Okay. This is the basic program inside main method I should write
system.out.print ln for what purpose? Printing. What message you have to
print? Uh based on the question what message I am asking to print? H A then
if you have to write your word h a can I write h directly? No because it is a
text. If it is a number 100 200 5 6 If it is a number I can write directly. If
it is a number I can write directly. But it is not a number. It is a text characters. Characters you have to write
only inside Vana double quotes. Uh now tell me if I write this program just by
typing the program. Program I have to save it. Save. I have to save with what name? Class name. You can choose
control. Yes. Save it. Uh now saving with what extension do Java. Uh where
you have to save in your own folder. Okay. You have to create your own folder and you have to save. Saved it. Now what
the first step? Open notepad. What the second step? Type the program. What the third step?
Save above program
with the name name pattern dot j name pattern with single snn. Java. Uh after
saving now tell me this program what I have to do just type and type compile
and execute. Compile and execute. First step develop. Second step is compile. Uh
I want to compile. Compile. How the what the syntax to compile?
For compilation syntax. For compiling I need one software. What the name of the software? Java C. Okay. Java C space
Java file name. This is a Java file name. Where I should run this command? I cannot run this command in command uh
edit plus. Why required one software called what? Command prompt. When you open command prompt, it will show you
the path. The path you have to change it to your folder directory. D/ fullstack
Java development. Fullstack Java development/01
CJ/01 JB.
Okay. So this is the command you have to use. This is the command you have to use. Okay. Clear my point. Uh then when
you compile this program, compiler software, compiler software, compile
this program, convert this entire source code into what code? Byte code. Super. Excellent. Convert it
to byte code and save. And save inside where? Dot class file. Inside dot class
file. This is what we discussed yesterday. Uh save it. After saving, open command prompt. Change the path to
this path. and then compile by using Java C command by giving Java file name and then after compilation compiler
software will generate this doclass file and save in the same directory. After compilation, what you have to do?
Execute. Execute. What the syntax for execution?
Execute. Same path. There's no change in the path. In place of Java C what I have
to use Java uh I should use class name, right? Don't give class extension. Then
what it will give output. Uh what is the output you have written? System.out.print.
When you type Java this class name JBM software will go to this class and then
running main method inside main method sop what message you have written that message will come hurry hurry will come
understand my point save it let me try to run this program in my system and show you output for the new students uh
saving completed then open command prompt cmd where you have saved folder
you should remember D drive. Yes. D drive. And now full stack Java core
Java Java basic. Uh here we have saved our program. Open command prompt and
then change path. Where is command prompt already open here. Clear screen. Change the path. Change direct drive and
then change directory fullstack Java/ Java/ Java basic. Then now type Java C
name in two lines. No pattern name in name pattern with single s this Java
file I want to compile compiled it successfully background you can see class file created now right dot class
file created then I want to execute further what command I had used Java uh
name pattern with a single sop without any extension then JVM will go to this
class found main method in main method what SOP you have written that message is Okay.
So this is what we discussed in last class with the different test cases, right? Uh now is this output I asked
you? No. What is the output I asked? Uh this is the output I want to display. To
display this output, I have to send A to next line. For sending A to next line, R
to next line. What should I use? Slash N. Where is this? Uh I have to use here
slash N. And here uh if I use a slash n all characters are tag going to next
line next line next line no one slashn one line only it will go compile it
execute look at there a i going to next line slashn after all characters are
going to next line. Uh then tell me now I want a also go to next line. Okay
after a slash n after our slash n. Okay done clear screen compile it. Executed.
Executed. Look at there. H A R. Uh I want H in the vertical line or
steps line. I want steps for steps purpose. I should move one tab space. Uh
look at the one tab space represented on the keyboard. What? Just press your tab key on the keyboard. On the keyboard you
have tab. Press tab. It will move. But in the Java program how the tab space
will be coming? You should add /ash t. And here how many slash is two. And here
how many? Three. Save it. Go to command prompt. Clear screen.
Uh compile it and execute. Can I hope all people got clarity now?
Okay. Super. Uh now this is about yesterday program and continuation to today. Now my question is in a single
text in a single text message can I use multiple escape sequence characters
combination? Yes, there's no rule that only one one special one escape sequence
character. You can use multiple escape sequence characters. Next question. Can I use same escape sequence character
repeatedly? Yes. Can I use a slash multiple times here? Yes. Then how many times you have
used slashn those many times it is going down down down next line it is created
understand can I use multiple slash ts yes as many multiple slash is used those many tab spaces are inserted hope you
all understand now okay I want to ask one small question on / t all the people look at here please
system outprint ln double quotes I want to print a student
number. Student number colon
space plus one. Can you understand this one? I am
asking print ln. Okay, one second. I don't want to shake it now. Uh, can you
understand it now? Student number colon. What the student number? One. Okay. Copy
paste. Next I'm writing student name HK.
Next course uh what the course
full stack Java we are learning in this particular session. Uh core Java.
Okay. Core Java. Uh next system.out.print and fee. What the fees
for core Java? Not full stack Java 3,500. Okay, these are four values I wanted to
print. Save it. Go to command prompt. Clear screen. Compile it. How many lines
will be printed here? Here, here, here, here. Four lines will be printed. Okay,
four lines will be printed. Are these four lines are printing in a
equal vertical line? in a equal vertical line. Is it readable
message or not readable? Is it is this is it readable message or
not readable? Not readable. SN started. S name value somewhere started.
Course value somewhere started. C value somewhere started. Okay. It's not it's
like a snake jig going. If you display this pattern to the user,
will he be happy? No. If you take one application form printed all labels left
side and all text boxes exact vertical line coming or not are they coming jig
order? No. Then tell me I want you also print to bring all these colons exact
top to bottom vertical line clearly and then tell me how can I write now? Huh?
Come on. Uh / t / t / t / t understood.
Save it. Then go here and run. Clear screen.
Compile it. Compile successfully. Execute.
Previous output readable. This output readable. So in my code going on in coming
projects development time I will use a slash very much every day I'm going to
use /t when when I'm printing the output after text message before colon I will
add a /d so that the colons will be coming vertically neatly okay now can you open yesterday program one second
one second one second here carefully observe I want to explain one point here
I will uh Okay, we will write this program separately instead of mixing it
with it with it. Let me write separate program.
Uh class student details printer open bracket closed bracket
public static while main of string array
asks open bracket closed bracket paste. Save it.
Go to command prompt. Clear screen. Java C.
Student details. Printer on Java. Compile. Execute. Now we are getting output
correctly. Clear my point. But I have a question. Last class I told you slasht
is meant for inserting how many spaces?
Eight spaces. But observe the twist. Do you have eight spaces here? Do you
have eight spaces here? Do you have eight spaces here? Do you have eight spaces here? The theory and practical
not match. Now enter ask a question. How many
spaces inserted by / T? What is your answer? Minimum eight.
Uh maximum eight. Okay. Not eight. Maximum eight spaces.
It's depending maximum eight spaces depending on number of characters
available before T. Number of characters available before T. So tell me I have
after SN O. uh after SN O here I have written in the program word /d then here
in the / t how many spaces it has to insert eight spaces eight spaces compulsory maximum eight spaces
maximum eight spaces depending on number of characters available it's a left side
tell me /d left side how many characters available three 1 2 3 then more how many
spaces should insert five only five added Okay. Now uh 1
1 2 3 4 5. Understood? Tell me. Now here
/ I have inserted. How many spaces has to be inserted? Maximum eight. Depending on left side
characters. How many are already available? 1 2 3 4 five characters already available. Then how many
remaining will be inserted? Three characters. Understood? Uh next tell me course. 1 2 3 4 5 six already
there. Then how many more added? Two only. Okay. Now next three. How many are
there? Three extra how many added? Five. So that all colons are coming in vertical. So there is a wrong thought
process in the student's mind. Slash T means eight spaces are inserted. No, no,
no, no. Depending on number of characters available left. So what is your answer? maximum eight spaces
depending on left side number of characters available to its left side. Okay, let me add one
more statement. Let me add one more statement. Let's see how many people answer
system.out Print double quotes.
Uh sorry.
Uh how many spaces are added?
How many characters are there? Lastly, before first you have to count. Count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Mommy already eight
characters are there. Okay. Now you should consider these eight are not considered. Not considered. Ignore. Then
next uh before SL responsible how many spaces? Eight spaces. Okay. Eight spaces
should insert. Then it will start counting from first double quotes. Beginning double quotes it will start
count totally. How many characters you have? Nine. First eight will be ignored because these eight are not under the
slash. After eight again you should insert what? Eight. How many characters available? E one. Then it will add what?
Seven more. Okay. Let me try to prove this point. Let me try to this prove
point. Copy paste. Here I am writing 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 uh let's
see now save it go on compile clear screen compile execute
oh sorry I should not write uh nine should not write now again I have
to start from here one correct clear Three compile
execute uh observe now. So what happened here? First eight are not considered
from E onwards eight consider. So E after what is there /d from here onwards
this one ignored and how many added eight uh seven remaining seven spaces. So you have to see left side how many
characters are there. If already eight characters are there then /d will insert
what? New eight spaces. Everyone understand? Uh so again repeating
maximum eight spaces depending on number of characters available to its left
side. Left side already eight characters are available then freshly eight spaces
are inserted. less than eight eight characters are available then it will
add uh remaining spaces that's simple point all people are got clarity so when
you are printing the message accordingly you have to take care now can you please help me I want to bring all these colons
to this colon matching what should I do uh you have to add what two / here are
catching my point so simple I hope you can practice this program in your system uh write down this program develop a
program. Very important program. This is daily we are using in our projects. Develop a
program. Develop a program
to print to print student details.
Student details. Please stop.
student details. Uh one minute by separating
by separating labels and values by colon
by colon. Please stop. You must print all
colons in one vertical line.
You can say print or align. You can say print or align. You must print or align
all colons in one vertical line.
Okay. Ali people please listen 2 minutes. Today is the last demo class. I hope I
already gave you eight classes demo sessions. Right. I think now you can decide to join the course or wait for
the next batch. Right. Uh now I already explained theory. I have already
explained programs. How my teaching style, how much I interact with you, how
much making your brain to think, how much I am making you involved in the class discussion and how much I'm
helping you to do the religion, how much I'm actively participating after the class in the WhatsApp channel or Google
classroom and sharing the material. You have seen me all if you decide and
believing me I can make you software engineer now it's the time you have to take admission and close your admission
today clear my point so today is the last class for demo session tomorrow onwards only paid students are allowed
into the classroom either offline students or online students both online students offline students this classroom
will be same okay there is no change in the classroom classroom is same online
students. Tomorrow onwards this link will not be working. Okay. Now this is a
demo link. From tomorrow onwards demo link is going to be changed. Tomorrow onwards paid link will be start.
Is it clear? So if you complete payment today and if you send the details to the
admin by afternoon after class completed complete payment and by afternoon if you
send the payment uh then you will get the paid link details. So already admin
has shared one more time I am sharing you the details. Please take screenshot.
uh these are the details. If you want fullstack Java course then
this is the fees and if you want core Java only core Java course you want then
this is the fees. Okay. You want with recordings,
you must pay extra fee.
Contact admin.
That extra fee how much I also know. And who is the admin?
Offline students. Why you need a recordings? Don't take
I don't encourage recordings even of online students also but online students are fully habituated of recordings.
Okay. And next
Okay. And this is the bank details. Okay. And this is the link for doing the
payment. So take screenshot. And one more time I'm sharing.
One second. Okay. Course details. Quickly I wanted to revise from my side.
Course details. Fullstack Java and Core Java. You can take admission for course fullstack Java or core Java. This course
target is making you a software engineer not just a Java student. When I'm
talking you don't talk. If you are talking you are called you can fill the gap. Okay. Dot dot dot
because nowadays you know you are very sensitive. If I scold
so when I'm talking don't talk please. course target is making you a software
engineer. I will you know like a fish how they are rubbing on the floor that
way I will I will also rub you okay to ask them already might be observed from the
yesterday. Okay. Now I next listen. I have wireless mic. I have wireless mic.
I will come to your place for two reasons to check what you are writing.
If I find any mistakes in your notes, I will correct your mistakes. Is it a good or bad? Uh yesterday when I'm coming to
your place, some students are hiding the book. Amma is coming. Okay.
If you hide your book, how can I find your mistake? Huh? Is it a college or schooler?
It's not college. It's not school. You are here for learning. You have to show your notes to me. You have to call me
correct. Is it right or wrong? You check and let me know. If I do any mistake, correct me. You are here for correcting
your mistakes to get more knowledge from me. If you are not interacting, if you are running away from me, you are hiding
your notes. How can I correct your mistakes? Same mistake you again and again will commit. No.
So the benefit of my class I have I use wireless mic offline students I'll come
to your place I will correct your mistake and online students I cannot come to your house you have to post your
questions in the chat window clear my point in chat window when you post your
program I will verify whether you are written right or wrong
clear next duration of core java
uh correct course is what only I'm dealing with core Java duration of core Java is 3 months uh duration for
full stack Java 6 months
6 months one after one parallel 6 months 6 hours per day you have to
spend 6 hours per day three courses you have to learn or I can say three courses per
If you are learning one course per day, it takes one and a half year.
Uh starting date of our course 5th of February. End date core Java. Core Java
end date May 5th. Fees 3,500. I will cover Java up to the latest version Java
21 version. Everything I will cover once our course completed you no need to look back anywhere you go any entry you go
you will pass next slowly according to our syllabus going I will prepare
YouTube shots for revision okay YouTube shots Instagram res
only no jawabad also will come okay now right
wherever you go the moment Moment you open YouTube or you open Instagram res today discuss a topic based res I will
prepare and I'll post you have to watch them for revision understood right uh
also in that res last two people what are you doing fellows please now listen I'm giving
inform important information for you right I'm talking not for my sake have some common sense ra you want to get
scoldings huh in the class I will discuss main content
also some one or two intra questions I will cover we don't have one year to discuss core java right but core java is
heart of entire java without core java knowledge you cannot pass interview you
cannot understand nextgo going courses advanc java spring spring boot so core
java how much deep dive you do that much strong you will be in the subject that
much confident will be in your subject so today based on the current discussion
completed. Extension interview questions, YouTube shots and reals I
will give. You have to watch them, practice them. Come for next class.
Homework will be there. Daily homework will be there. Are you ready for it? Daily assignment, daily homework will be
there. If you work at home, come to the next class. Next class we will rock like anything. Okay. Uh so on uh next uh
daily class will be what the daily class 9:00 a.m. to 11 p.m. Duration of the
class is 1 hour 50 minutes daily will be happen next uh weekly class how many 6
days per day per week Sunday will be holiday online admin number I already gave offline admin number satish number
already gave supporting ID if you want write mail to the nar IT management you can write mail to this ID and this is my
number only send WhatsApp don't call I will not lift okay next training mode both offline online any online students
want to come to offline line for better understanding you can come anytime. Material complete Java book and running
notes both I will provide. Okay. Complete Java book I will provide after admission completed in Google classroom.
Interview material also I will share uh payment details. This is the payment details just now I shared. Next very
important for material after payment admin will add you to Google classroom.
I will create go on Google classroom. Admin will add you to that Google classroom. We I will not share you the
code. You will not get the code. You your email will be added. Okay. Send
proper email id. If you send wrong email id, you will not be added later. We are not responsible. Working proper working
email ID you send. Next while you are doing payment very very important sir in
the remarks definitely remarks column will be there. Now remarks box while you are doing the payment remarks box will
be there. In the remarks box you have to give your name. Online students I'm talking offline students it's okay
online students you should give name your name your batch number I mean batch
name means your course name your course name batch timing and
faculty. So you must enter these details in the remarks column and rem uh save
this uh screenshot share this screenshot with you at any
time we will ask you for the payment details whenever we got doubt or
whenever we are changing the code link whenever we are doing some change during the course in the middle again we will
change that time again we will ask your payment details till course completed you have to have the payment screenshot
If you lose in the middle if you ask us can't do anything we cannot help you. You should have your details with you.
Okay. Save somewhere in a safe place for future reference. For example name Har Krishna course name FSJD. I think he
admin has shared you your batch ID. What the batch ID.
This is the batch ID. Uh just have that batch ID. Okay. FSJD-EN the batch number
you mentioned and 9:00 a.m. batch timing is 9:00 a.m. and faculties HK like this
you mention and done if you already completed payment it's okay leave it okay if you are doing the newly payment
then you give these details also is it clear guys online students is it
clear to everyone uh today is the last day for
what is details sir which details you
Why you have a lot of confusions here?
Uh mute, unmute, sir. Can you hear me, sir? Thank you,
sir. So uh this is full stack uh Java but uh you're telling uh it is 11 uh
113. Why you are too much thinking? That's what my problem to you.
Why sir you are not sticking to the point extra thinking. This is 113 that's this is the
batch code just you enter. Why you are thinking too much? No but this is full
stack right sir again why you are asking same question this is the batch code you
are belongs to which batch this batch yeah okay this batch number is what fullstack Java
development or core java if you take admission only for core java same ID fullstack Java also same ID
same ID okay s confusion here yeah sir another question is that uh
last week you said they will enroll um sati uh I mean for um which class is
that it Oracle class the timing that Sat
no not current discussion now I know it's a different one but end of the class ask
okay sir thank you sir okay nine students do you have any
questions shik yes I said admin will add after
completing admissions Right.
I didn't say that you have already added. I said after payment, after completing payment, admin will add you.
Today he will add or tomorrow he will add. Clear?
Uh shall I proceed everyone? Online students still any questions? Offline students never have any questions. Such
a nice students you intelligent.
Okay. So again I'm sharing
these details. Complete payment today by afternoon and
get the new link from the admin. Come back to the subject. No.
Huh ar that's what I'm telling by he will
add by oh by
write on this program
right now write on this program right now here how many slash ts I have to give
two / ts Because of whom? Institute.
Today we will create Google classroom for the paid students and you'll be added by tomorrow. Okay. Now
and I'll make material available in the Google classroom from tomorrow.
Careful. Full reverse.
Rupan Pradhan already I have replied why you are asking same question again
Sarah Chendra what is the error coming
Moti shr 9 to 11 slot is core java slot.
9 to 11 slot is core java slot. Clear?
If you want only core java knowledge take admission for core java and
continue 9 to 11. If you want fullstack Java take admission to fullstack Java. Other courses will be run in other slots
not 9 to 11. You can join if 9 to 11. If other slots not possible you wait for new batches
charendra class name you have to give not whatever that you name follow the step numbers properly give
I already dictated notes read notes properly and type don't type whatever you want
commands mistake you are doing huh everyone completed a writing
Okay,
there is no problem in the program. There is a problem in the command typing Java C Java command.
Yeah, you can post your question in the chat, buddy. AR what is your question only to take permission post your
question in the chat I will check uh let's go to the next point everyone
uh what the use of slash yes single space
copy paste uh I want to print
uh say suppose I want to print what do you call
Email id email e mail
okay email address let's say email address uh email and address add s if I
write like this it's not uh clearly visible so what I say one space I'm
giving instead of giving space by your own what you write slashes
are you following then uh / t colon uh okay what is my email address java hurry
Krishna at the rategmail.com.
Okay. Uh here / t will add how many spaces depending on number of spaces a number
of characters available? 1 2 3 4 5 6 one
space 7 8 uh how many more added? 1 2 3
4 5 How many added here? Three. Save it. Go to command prompt.
Clear screen. Compile. Execute. Okay. Now here slash s one
space came and three extra spaces came. Understood buddy. Someone asked explain slashes.
What is your doubt? Last percentage you are getting.
Are you using at uh Windows or what?
What is your operating system? uh because of Mac you are getting don't
use print print len use that percentage is your Mac command prompt command
prompt symbol it is it's not Java symbol
don't use a print use print so that that percentage will go to the next
Sarah Chendra.
Okay, let me ask your classmates. You mistake in stuff. I am talking. All guys look at here what the mistake he's
doing. Identify
example java java. Okay.
Babu Sarat, can you type this command? Set class path and press enter
in your command prompt. What is the class name you have written?
share the program.
What the name of the class you have created in your in this Java file.
Share that program here in chat window and also type this command in your
system and press enter in command prompt. Type this command set
space class path. Press enter. Uh what the name of the class? Can you
see your program is this? What the name of
the class?
what the name of the class you are typing here that's why I'm saying don't use system
you won't reason me all guys listen look at here both offline online students everyone
last three days I am telling same thing don't use system while I am explaining system is not for learning system is
meant for testing your knowledge not for learning not even for practicing you
should have every point in your brain what I am writing next what I want what
should I write next okay I want to compile Java file Java C file name I
want execute Java class name uh now he didn't listen what I said he didn't
practice the way I explained he following his own way he is in one train I'm in another train and he's crying
from outside I may have to come to your train. How we can come to my train. So that's what I am telling you people
has to follow my instructions.
You must follow my instructions. It's not required man. You did mistake. You said class name is same sir. That's why
I check for other option. Uh look this is not given by answer by me. Your classmate only gave.
When the student correct your mistake. Why you cannot correct yourself? Where is the mistake?
The student is following me and you are following your own way. There is no sync between you and me.
So don't use system while I am explaining.
Use notes only. Use notes. Write down in the notes. Don't use system. Online
students are doing mistake. Okay. Done. Come back.
Uh shall we proceed next points? Okay. What the topic we are learning?
Heading heading of the class heading of the topics. Yesterday since yesterday we have
entered into new topic. What was that? Escape sequence characters. Uh look at
here. I don't want to dictate the notes. I will share the complete material. I
want you people write notes at home. Okay.
Where is this file? Uh look at here please. Writing these
notes will take lot of time. How many? There are 300 lines are there.
Okay. Writing notes will take lot of time. That's why please look at here already almost 200 lines already we
written notes. Okay. Observe escape sequence characters. What is a escape sequence? When I say escape sequence
character, you have to flash in your mind three words. What is that? Slash n / t slash s. Uh when I use a slashn is a
slashn as it is printing. No for slashn some special character is placing slash
n place new meaning coming. Slash d place new meaning coming slash place new meaning is coming. Are you following?
When you want insert one new line character slash n. If you want to insert eight spaces or or maximum eight spaces
then you have to use slash one space I want to insert then slashes. Everyone understand? Huh? Observe a character
preceded by a backslash. I am keep on saying back slash backslash. People are
writing forward slash and saying sorry my system not working sir. Remember system not working and it is
not system mistake. It is your typing talent. Okay. You have shown your typing
talent correct character you have to type when something is not coming some error is coming means immediately you
have to tell oh I type something mistake let me cross check okay uh backslash you
have to use not forward slash is an escape sequence uh it has a special
meaning to the compiler JBM and console software console means uh console means
what command prompt I don't say command prompt here because console is available
with command prompt. Console is available with edit plus. Console is available with Eclipse. Console is
nothing but a screen where output will be displayed. That output console screen
will be available with the command prompt software. So currently we are using whose console command prompt
console but always we don't use command prompt software console. Sometimes we'll use edit plus console. Sometimes we will
use Eclipse console also. That's why what terminology we have to use console. Okay. What is escape sequence character?
What is the use of it? A character preceded by a backslash is an escape
sequence. It has a special meaning to the compiler JVM and console software. Okay. Every escape character must be
starts with slash following by how many characters? Single character following by a single
character. If you try to add two characters, is it considering two characters or only one character? Only
one character. When we place a slash before a character, it is not considered
as a regular character. Some special functionality will be
added. Any doubt in these three points? Everyone comfortable? Already we have
experienced no. I have one bad style of explanation that is I don't teach direct
definitions like in college like in regular training. Generally faculty will
come to the class in the college or school. Uh today we are discussing about escape sequence characters. Uh what is
escape sequence character? Why escape sequence character? How escape sequence character? Write a program. Topic
completed. Then who is talking? I am talking. Who
is learning? I am learning. What are you doing? Watching. Writing notes. Did you
understand it? No. Understanding means feeling it. Come on sir. Are you feeling
hungry? That is understand. Not now. Okay. Are you feeling sleepy? Yes. That
is understanding. Feeling means understanding. So when I say today, yesterday I didn't talk anything. The
word called escape sequence character. Today when I say escape sequence character, immediately in your mind
escape sequence character spelling flash.
Uh that is called understand. When I say one word, its meaning should come.
Suppose I'm saying your native place when I say native place are you seeing
the spilling of native place your house and your surrounding friends house and coming or when I say your father or
father face is coming now mother face coming uh that is called understanding when I give one word this word meaning
should come so always first I will explain program from the program I will
derive definitions definition I should not tell you should
Is it okay? This style this is called discussion style. Discussion style will
make you developer. Teaching style will make you listener. You want to become
listener or developer. Developer means should not focus on definition should
focus on concept. Understand. How can you understand? It is a process. Again
steps are there. Step number one listen. Step number two,
reply. Listen, reply. Step number three, remember. Listen, reply. Remember, then
apply. Apply. Apply means what? Example. I said, um, I want to move the
characters to the next line. What I want? What I want? Next line. What I
want to do next line. Reply. Listen. What you listen? I want to move the characters to next line. Then I'll I'll
say what I want to do move the characters to the next line. You have to reply that laziness you have to remove
from your body, brain and you know mouth. Uh I want to move next line. Uh next I will ask question how can I move
if I write a hurry? How these characters go to the next line? Oh I should write some extra character there. That is
called analyzation. What do you call analyzation? By asking question I'm
giving some thought process to your brain. Then analyzation. Now you are realizing oh I need to write something
extra here. Realize after realization then immediately you are going for what
visualization slashn oho wherever write slashn after slashn
available characters are moving to next. So this discussion style I'm following with a technique called A RV analyze
realize visualize. With this analyze realize visualize technique when you join in the company do you need anybody
help to solve the bugs in the company? No. Immediately we will listen to the problem. Okay. Your client will send one
PPT by addressing the problem. See Mr. developer. I click on this button then
this screen come then I enter this data then I click on this button now I got this error and you will take all the
slides and then sending that screenshot VPT to you now what I have to do look at it you are not understanding
now you should start analyze oh when I click on this button it is going to background discord from there it is
coming here oh this error coming because of that column in that next table column
data is missing that is called realization. Huh? Where I have to write
the code? How to fix this bug? That is called what? Visualization. So if you keep on working with my technique ARV,
by the time this 3 months duration completed, course completed, you'll become perfect real life software
engineer. Are you ready for this style of learning or you want college style? If I follow
college style already in the college you follow, you fail and come to Amir. If I
follow again college style one more time you'll fail here and you have to go to umbate
okay no no we don't want to go to amberate I have to go to where now city to go to high-tech city with what
mindset you have to follow listening mind analyzation mind analyzation in
your company no one will sit next to you will teach everything you have to learn by your own for that let us analyze so
again repeating I will not give you heading first I will give you program after you experience program and
understanding then I will launch the topic. Okay now understood. Uh so come
on. Uh now escape sequence characters. All these three points we have experienced when we place a slash before
a character it is not considered as a regular character. Some special functionality will be added. For example
if we use just n is displayed as it is already you know right system.out print
harrishna what is coming? As it is harrishna will come. Let me take space place space here
forever understand. Uh if you place slash before n its meaning is not n it
is a new line. n is not displayed. Rather new line is displayed means the
characters placed after slash and are moved to next line. Hurry look at the slash coming. No here space after slash
and space Krishna is coming here. Uh what the rule after slash we cannot
place any character as we like. How many letters we have in Java? C how many
letters we have in English? 26. After slash can I place any of the 26 letters?
No. There are some restricted number is there. We are allowed to place only few characters. Those few characters list
will be changed from one language to another language. Adexa you have learn
escape sequence characters in C language C++ language maybe Python in your academics in Java one language to
another language and in Java the characters are changing in Java supports nine escape sequence characters what are
they observe who is the hero in trip movie
Ram Charan And
okay, NR your favorite hero. NTR has Facebook. You know Facebook account of
NR. Uh I found entr Facebook has single code, double code and slash
escape sequence characters completed.
How many escape sequence characters? Eight. See nine. Three. Three. Three.
Nine. Huh? N. Facebook has single code double quote
slash I escape sequence characters. Easy enough to remember.
If you add a slash escape sequence characters are ready. That's all. Tell
me is there any chance you forget now these characters? No. Uh if if somebody ask me escape sequence characters, how
many are there? N what are they? NTR you use NTR. He'll shock you. Whom you
are calling? No, no, no. NTR is not a hero name. NTR. Okay. NTR. Yes. FB
single code double quote slash. Now tell me if I use a slash in the program
uh what will be added? New line. Don't say next line. New line is inserted. Then characters are moving
to next line. If I use a slash t one tab space is one tab space is
inserted. Uh now eight minimum I mean maximum eight characters will be added. Uh slash
r is carriage return what we call it as
carriage returns. It will return one carriage. Did you bring carriage defend carriage lease carriage in childhood
when you go to college school uh that carriage will be written that is called slasher and next slashes
one space is inserted slash f form feed what we call it as form feed
is inserted and next slash b / b backspace on your keyboard we have
backspace now backspace is inserted slash A single code uh here onwards a
danger nfb these six these are six characters new
meaning is inserted n is not inserted is not inserted r is not inserted new
meaning is inserted but slash singular code slash double quote single code is
inserted slash double quote double quote is inserted slash slash slash is
inserted everyone tell me yeah in Java program double quotes is having a
meaning already. Is n is having any meaning? No. If you want to add a special meaning use slash.
If you want remove existing meaning also add what slash. Double quotes is a begin
and end of a text message. Now I want to use double quotes to print as a double
quote. Like how h a r printed. I want to print double quotes. Then if you write
double quotes compiler throw error because already it has a special meaning. Now I want suppress the special
meaning before double quotes you write what slash. So that what will printed special meaning printed double quotes
printed? Double quotes. Single code is having special meaning. I don't want any special meaning. I want single code as a
single code. Then what I should write slash is single code. Understanding I want to print slash. Slash is escape
sequence character. No already has a meaning. Now I want to print a slash. But if you write a slash directly
compiler throw error. What I should write? Double quotes slash single slasher double slasher double slash. Let
me show you this small program so that you will understand. Please first let me complete it. Uh now look at here class
quotes. I will give you one program after this. Okay you have to write program public
static void main of. So little fast I'm going today because I want to complete
this topic today. Tomorrow I want to start press topic pressure topic. Okay, that's why I'm going little fast. Please
try to listen. First fast first fast first respond you will understand my speed. System outprint tell me double
quotes I have written a everyone everyone save it.
Huh? If I write double quotes a what is printed on console? Java C double quotes
a printed in between double quotes printed. In between double quotes whatever you have written that is printed. Online
students please respond. Nana first uh what is printed? A. Now in place of a I
am writing double quotes. Huh? Correct. Come on. In place of a I
have written otherwise let me write both a I have written copy paste copy paste
in place of A I'm writing double quotes uh tell me what the meaning of it I am
asking the compiler and JVM please print double code
will it understand by compiler and printed are throwing error everyone
should respond throwing error okay don't sit silently please try to help yourself
to learn tell When you go to mess food come in front of you plate then sit in front of it and keep on look at the food
is the food come to your mouth automatically uh do one thing open your mouth ah will it come to your mouth no
you have to use your hands if you don't involve nothing come to your life if you
want to take anything your involvement is compulsory so if you want understand
subject you have to speak in the class uh tell me will it compile or not compile Compiler software will go to quotes Java
file came here reading first line no syntax mistake second line no syntax
mistake third line uh double quotes started and it is a text now uh this is
a begin there should be end right what is the end after a double quote this a
is considered as a normal character then compiler going to next line next line double code start after double code what
you have written No double code. Then this is the end. No, this is a start and
this is what end. Then compiler asking okay who are you? Why? What are you
doing here? Compiler didn't understand and throwing error for the next. Look at the some missing line terminated
whatever this double quote. What are you doing here? It is throwing error. Now I want to ask the compiler uh compiler
please don't consider this middle double quote as end. Consider double quote as
double quote. You just consider double quote as a double quote. Then what I should write slash. If I if I write
slash is it considered as a special meaning double quot or normal just a normal character just normal character.
It is not considered as a special character. It is considered as a normal character and it prints double quotes as
it is. Control 1 compile control 22 execute. What is coming? Double code.
Everyone understand? If you want to print double quote in a double quote I
should write what slash double code. Okay. Now understood right. Let me ask a
next question. Look at here. I want to write single code single code single
code between something I'm writing B. If you want to print one character single
character I can use either a double code or I can use what? Single code. Save it.
Any compile time error? No. Compile successfully. Uh executed successfully.
What is coming? B. Are you coming? No. I don't want character normal character I
want to print what single code is it compile or not compile not compiled come on apply the previous slide knowledge
here uh compiler software come to a first single code then first single code and begin character there should be
close character close character means end single coder searching for next single coder
searching for next single code found next single code open close then last
single What?
Okay. It is throwing error. What is that? Unclosed character literal. So this is a begin.
Where is your close? So I want to tell to compiler my dear compiler you
innocent fellow. This is a normal character. This is a begin. This is end.
This is normal character. Then you have to tell to compiler by writing what? / single code clear screen compile execute
execute execute you got output what single code so tell me if you want to
place a double code inside a double code I have to write slash double code if you
want to place single code in a single code I have to write what slash singular
code all people understand now let me write one more statement see let me see
how many confusion masters are Here confusion really confusion.
Think thing think do you have really confusion topics? No. If you use your
brain confusion don't use your don't show your talent.
If you show your talent paka confusion will come. I told you one point. If I
want to use a double code in a double code I have to use a slash double quote
because if I use a double code directly compiler considering this double quote as end double quote and the third double
quote is a compiler considering as it is ideal throw a error. Okay. Now now I am
writing one statement show your talent double quote there double code is there
is meaningful yes or no. uh compiler has come across
what positive double quote begin then we searching for what end double quote what the end double quote this one single
start and what end start matching matching so between characters are not there let not be there what is your
problem no problem empty double quotes we can write compile it execute executed
what is printing nothing empty not space we need to write space mama
If right space space is there when you no space nothing is there it's empty string now observe between I am writing
single code compiler not compiler
apply algorithm and tell me don't show your talent don't use your brain apply algorithm what is the compiler algorithm
who are you compiler student
you are not student you are a compiler I said Compile then who is compiling
compiler who is playing the compiler role you who is Mahesh Baba Mahesh Baba
when he is there outside when you are when when you go to theater in theater somebody who is majest you say may baba
you'll say actor hero right uh same story here when I ask compile don't use
your eyes most dangerous eyes you have to use compiler algorithm you How to use
your rice by applying compiler algorithm? Compiler coming system.out.t print corrector. I double quotes. Uh
after double quotes searching for word end double code. Are you double code?
No. Are you double code? Yes. Okay. Start end problem. Any problem? No problem. No
problem. Save it. Go and compile. Compile or not. Successfully compile. Compile it and then execute. Look at
there. What are coming? Single code. What you started with? Double quote.
What should be found next? Double quote. No. Next double quote. No. Next double quote. Yes. From the start double quote
to end double quote. Between characters are ignored. They consider as it is normal characters and printed. All
people are coming with me. Now I want write one more statement. Ready to show your talent? This time I am writing
single code. Huh? Huh? Super guessing. Super guessing. That's what required. What I'm going to next next write you
should guess. Huh? Single code after what I'm writing double code. If I leave it uh if I leave it
error why error compiler asking fellow you started
single code where is end single code right save it save it. Uh clear screen compile compiler throwing unclosed
character lit you started character where you close the character. Oh sorry
compiler I will call it I am writing here close tell me compiler not compile
compile single code start single code end between any nonsense you write I don't care except single code okay save
save go to command prompt compile compiler satisfied with the code yes my algorithm
is satisfied then compile it class file generated executed output coming what double quotes everyone coming with me
final conclusion tell me when should I use / double code when should I use / single code in the program.
If you want to insert double quotes in a double in between double code, I have to use what? SL double quote. If you want
to insert single code in a single code, you have to use what? Slash singular code. Okay. Now, next. If I want to
insert double quote in a single code slash double quote not / double quote not
required. If you want to insert single quote inside a double quote/ single
quote not required directly we can use double quote and single quote all these points are clear to your brain. Huh?
Write write ready to write program now. Write it.
Show your talent. Knowledge I gave you. Apply this knowledge.
Develop a program. Sir, one question sir.
In your college, the question is develop a program or write a program.
There you can understand difference between me and your faculty. Not only listen listen question not completed one
minute not only in the college in amirate or in YouTube or in websites
wherever you go the question will be write a program
only in my class I have used develop a program I do don't know one day my
colleague okay my class is happening here another class is happening that room my colleague is coming this side he
he listen suddenly develop a program develop a program then And he asked me
after class sir one question we all saying write a program actually write a program sir but we are saying develop a
program what the meaning of it then I also shocked I don't know that I am
using the word develop all people are using right then I asked myself why I'm saying develop develop what the meaning
of develop in company will you write program or
will you develop program because I'm a software engineer All my terminologies are from company.
Okay. I never use any word from the college or anywhere from the textbooks. Develop means type and save. But sir, in
my notes I'm writing now. That is your mistake. Don't treat your notes as a notes. You treat it as a notepad. First
page, first notepad file, second page, second notepad file, third page, third
notepad file. You have to treat your book as a notepad. Then you will feel it
you are writing in the system and you will feel compile execute errors everything understood right develop a
program to print again printing to print your
name to print your name in
double quote and single quote write a program to print your name in a
double double code and in single code.
Develop a program to print your name in double quote and in single code.
Develop a program to print your name in double code and in single code. Look at here input. You need to know input is
what you are writing. Har Krishna what is the output I want two times Har
Krishna you have to print okay uh I should get output as double quotes Har
Krishna double quote and second time single code
Har Krishna single uh try try to write program now let's see how many people
can write
All people written papers. If you have written your name
last name first letter capital letter every word first letter capital follow the naming convention
why you're giving spaces space means three names a class can have
three names uh first letter should be kla smaller.
Write your name here. your name
why it becap letter
that's what this is the name of a class like how your name that is also named every word first letter should be
capital and should not give space M also capital N also capital M also plug
syntax
convention
button.
Bond small is the bond and
if I write double quotes double quotes printed or not printed uh print I ask what print I have to see
double quotes on console then what will you do that's what you have to think first double quotes second last double
quoter telling that it is a text. from the text. H print like H double quotes
should also print
it forward slash backward slash
forward and backward.
Did you slash? Why you need slash single code?
Yeah, I'll check. Uh tell me do we need to place a slash
for single code? No. Why? Uh you are writing single code in double
code. Why you need slash single code? Extra character unnecessary. And tell me
class name in quotes.
One program name also not matching with my name. public static wide main of
string array asks open bracket closed bracket uh system dot outprint ln double
quotes hurry
save this program check I'm completing online students following
java c name in quotes do java compile execute harrishna as is coming I want
double quotes also to print like h I should write here what
I should write here what double quotes double quotes if I write double quotes double quotes is it compile or not
compile not compile why this is a start double quote this is end double quote
then there is no meaning to this data so compiler is throwing error.
Hello students, everyone understood? Compile. Look at there. Compile time error coming to H. Look at the compiler
arrow mark showing to H. Uh then look at here everyone. Look at here everyone.
I'm writing something like this special syntax which we discussed tomorrow. This is a backward slash of forward
slashes. If I write forward double slash, it is considered as a comment. What is a
comment? Comment means don't read this line. I am telling to compiler please
ignore reading and compiling this line. Then compiler jump from this line to
third line. The second line is ignored. And then what I am going to write here system.out.print
line / double code. Uh if I write just / double code is sufficient. No. Uh tell
me this double code start. This is considered as end. No. H A R I space K R
I S H N Ah this double quote is end then now compiler will throw error for second
double quote okay now what should I do comment comment comment comment copy
paste then I have to write here / double quote here also now it is valid compiled
successfully executed successfully and we get output
Now look at that double quotes are not double quotes. Is it clear? Now I'm going to write single quote. Now tell me
if I write single code directly any error no error because you started with
a single quote or double code double code. Then compiler searching for a word double code double code double code
double code double code. One double quote start one double quote end. There is no syntax mistake. programming
successfully compiled and executed. Understand? No sir, I will write /
single quotes. No problem. / single code / single code. It is considered as
single quote only both are allowed. Compile it execute.
Understood? So this is what I expected you to write. Uh any questions, confusions you can
ask. Any confusion
really all you understand? Yes sir.
Okay. With this knowledge I'm stopping session here.
Line number seven. 1 2 3 4 5. This line
mona h this one
uh it start with the double quotes next word what character it it is now reading
only is it double quote double quote no double quote no double quote no it is only reading for double quotes
once it starts with the double quotes it is searching for one more double
Okay, listen guys by today we have completed basic programming that is
introduction to Java and I need to teach listen
I need to teach escape sequence character one more is there that is a slash that one more escape sequence
character program I have explained remaining escape sequence characters knowledge not required time waste okay
now uh I will share the notes and programs if you are interested practice otherwise leave it. Next tomorrow we are
going to start logical programming. Okay. Now as per second week we have to
start logical programming. I told you I prepared a detailed syllabus what we have to discuss. Okay. On which day?
Actually we are lagging with two days. Two days we are behind. Actually as per
today's discussion we should complete comments and working with edit plus language fundamentals also we have to
complete. Two days we are behind because of demo classes same topic repeated somehow we are delaying okay now no
problem in the coming classes one Sunday we will spend the time we will complete no problem now one Sunday not a problem
big deal right one or two Sundays we will cover and we will come on to the track uh tomorrow we are going to start
logical programming so tomorrow onwards classes are more important than first
week classes so requesting you you have to compulsory practice yesterday
programs and today programs. If you have not typed in your system, not practice, please do practice. System practice also
very important. How much you are strong in typing? Uh single finger typist.
Single finger typist. Listen. Open your first page of the notes.
First page of your notes, you return course details. Remember uh
full project oriented full stack Java by Har Krishna. Uh down to that heading
right number one.
Write down write down YouTube
slash nar ID
Instagram/ Narish id
narish id.com actually should be First no problem anywhere you write don't talk please
write fb.com/
nar ID very very important
t.mme t.m telegram/narite
Wherever you go, any social media you go, after that type what nar you'll find.
These are nar websites to find the new courses. This is for new courses and your social media for videos.
Now very important website typing.com
typing.com
hackerrank.com
class is not completed but online students almost 100 people after
such a nice people. Okay, they're always waiting when to click on leave button.
uh always remember online students at last end of the class I'll give you most important discussions don't miss all the
people watch here go to browser
presstyping.com press enter such a nice website to improve
your typing skills this is a number one super website
typing.com uh you can sign up when you sign up it is asking asking as a teacher, as a
student, sign up as a student. After sign up, you will find student these
many lessons. All batch, all my batch students along
with the core Java learning, they're also practicing this website and improving their typing skills. And many
people has come back after one month said, "Sir, thank you so much for sharing this website. My typing is
improved a lot." uh typing lessons. I'll show you I'll show you how much enjoyment you will get
typing lessons. Uh here beginner level lesson is there. First lesson is on J.
Click on it. Small video is there. If you want you
can watch your skills and it might
look at it this way. Imagine you were driving your approach and you still have
a way to go. Now imagine that your car is equipped with bicycle tires. You
probably wouldn't get very far, right? Think of typing as a way of putting the right tires on your car. When you learn
how to do something the right way, you open the door to exciting possibilities. It prepares you for the road ahead.
Also, did you know the virtual keyboard on your phone has the same layout as a traditional computer keyboard? That's
right. They both have a 40key layout. In other words, learning to type will improve your texting speed. No matter
what age, typing is an important skill that makes you stand out. It's something we all need in this computerized world
today. With practice and dedication, you'll make it fun because you'll be typing like a pro. We're glad you're
here and look forward to guiding you on this journey. Did you understand at least one word?
Thanks, Ra. uh if you not understand that slang that means you have to
improve your English listening skills not English from childhood you are
studying in English listening skills accent is very important you have to improve sorry
continue going for first lesson what the first lesson typing J look at there how
to arrange your fingers you should use all your eight fingers okay uh like this
and your thumb fingers should be on space bar. Which finger you have to space? Index J. Already showing what
character you are to use. Press J. Wow, you found it. Remember where that J key is because you are going to practice it.
Now press enter key. Okay. Now look at here. He's giving practice. Type J.
Start typing. J J. Hey, three stars. I got Wow. Okay. Uh
then next listen. Continue. Continue. Uh, next type F. Uh, now this left index
finger. Okay. You have to place all your eight fingers on position. F. Found.
Then press F. Oh. Fuj combination. Okay. F F F F F F F F F
F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F J F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F J F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F F J F F FJ.
Right. Uh then next P listen how much awesome website it is. The next observe
there is a small game. Now when you are typing you should not type just by like
that you have to speak outside your ears should remember your voice then only
your brain registered it. If you are speaking inside your brain will not register. Okay? You speak louder when
you are typing. J F J FJ F J F J F You mistake. FF J FJ J F
three stars came but I did mistakes now uh go back and do redo
okay again you do that and now click on continue wow super don't lose your
progress again one more video coming you can click on it skip video now type and
a space so if you are start practicing like is after giving this practice they
will start giving you small games. Okay, small games also will be there. Once you started practicing it, you will addicted
to the typing website every day along with the Java practice
15 minutes you set the time to practice 15 minutes don't go more than that. So daily you have to practice for Java and
also what typing will you anyway I'm typing now you are typing with a single
finger first Java programmer typing first typing 15 minutes then go for Java
program clear my point and next slowly going on I will also take you to the
website hacker rank and also I will take you to the next website lead code
okay now uh these two websites available content also programs also we are
practicing and hacker rank lead code by end of your training completed they will
give you some stars if you got five star rating from hacker rank you can in you can place that when your resume I'm a
fivestar ranked person on hacker rank if you place that is a weightage he's giving okay so that's also I'm going to
train you on hacker rank lead code questions also if you sincerely follow me what I am telling you in the class
Then within 3 months your level of understanding, level of confidence,
level of facing interview, handling the project in the company is completely different. You will think like a real
working 3 plus years of experienced developer. Start from today you have to
seriously work out. Will you work? uh by tomorrow you are coming to class you
will be make I will make the Google classroom and first chapter material sequence characters material second
chapter material also I'll make every time one chapter advanced material I will post suppose I'm teaching today
topic today topic I'll make it readily available for you some people maybe if
you have free time you can read little bit and come to the class when you read it and come to the class fast you will understand now so that is what my
intention I will make the chart after what do you call before only discussion it is available in the Google classroom
you can practice and come everyone okay now for this uh tomorrow onwards if you
take admission then only you'll be allowed otherwise you'll not be allowed contact admin if you have any concerns
okay thank you that's all for today class
Single quote is allowed only for placing one character. Single character means single character. If more than one
character if you place it will throw. Single character. Single code means single character.
Double quotes means multiple characters. In Python either in single code or in
double quotes you can write multiple characters. But in Java single code means only one character.
Single code means one character only.
Single means one character only. One character single.
You are using your brain. You are not taking my algorithm.
Admin number.
Uh students who joined today newly please stay here.
E number
WhatsApp WhatsApp Previous
class.
Yeah. Gori said please wait. I'll solve your problem.
I didn't explain it. Okay.
No, I will not. I will teach only
fullstack Java no
best faculties only we have don't worry okay we have best faculties you can
I'm teaching only yeah so currently I'm taking only code javas coming days we'll see but
currently I'm not guaranteeing okay next advanc also I don't teach as of now only
job are committed. Remaining courses will I take or not take? I cannot confirm now.
Yeah, please come check. Say this number.
Okay.
Old students
full Java Java only Java
Uh online students can you please ask your questions
Both are
only receiving capacity. Okay.
So there is a requirement change requirement change of
subject everything is same subject difference. Okay.
Uh guys can you please click on rise button
hand so that I can give permissions.
I rise hand unable to see. Uh okay. Gi say damir.
Hello. Yes sir. Uh which Java software you installed?
I tried Java 21 171
is breaking buddy. Uh sir can you hear me now? Huh?
Yeah, I tried uh with Java 21, Java 17, Java 112 but uh none of uh each pull of
saying. Can I share my screen to show you Java 11 if you install it will not work. You
have to install Java 21. I told you know uninstall Java 11. Whatever JDK software
is there in your system uninstall them everything. Okay. Okay. and then install Java 21.
Okay. Currently I'm like I did Java 21. So
uh then there is no problem. Oh, it's the command prompt is showing
uh uh uh it's not recognized
you are using uh Lenovo uh iPad and
system operating system 11 Windows 11 Windows now then there should not be
problem here I don't know what's
so from yesterday from today like uh I thought of not wasting time and I you
know start using it and start practicing. Afternoon please ping me on my WhatsApp number. We will try to solve that
problem. Okay. Afternoon. Yeah. Afternoon ping.
Okay. Other students any other questions
other students online students do you have any other questions?
Swati already I answered with only poor Java you cannot get job.
Okay guys see you all tomorrow in class.
Yeah. Hello sir.
Yes tell him sir. Demo class demo
demo section
demo videos. Okay. Okay.
demo videos
then only you will get proper knowledge. Okay sir demo number
today seventh class. Okay sir. Yeah yeah everything is thereract
mobile. No first you have to practice on notes. After remembering everything in your
brain then you have to go to lab mean laptop. Okay. Should not directly try in the laptop. First you have to practice
on paper steps you have to buy hard and remember. Okay. First you have to buy hard the
steps and remember then go to laptop for practice. Clearapend.
No no no. You have to use notes in class. Use only notes. Write
everything in the notes. After class after by practicing yourself by hearting
yourself then only use laptop for testing. Laptop is not for learning it is for testing. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Not site for demo. No you have to do everything in the notes first.
Demo notes. Yeah demo notes also I will share. I told you know today Google classroom I'll share everything. I'll share.
No sir I am not sharing myself. You will not get okay I will share I'm saying
share okay sirhat chat message
admin admin will add you to the Google classroom after your payment completed okay
okay sir this course fe uh please send message to the admin he will tell you everything
okay sir you have admin

