ript


right? Good morning everyone. So last class we have uh trying to
discuss about what are the different
What are the possible different compiled errors we can get from a program? Right? So yesterday our target is learning
errors to become better than yesterday and to become self-arner or independent
learner. So learning errors is most most important. If you take any of your
grandparents or grand you know grandparents or elders if you go and
talk to them they will reply wonderful statement your age is not equal to my
experience right
what the meaning of your age is not equal to my experience how did they get experience
they got experience by committing so many mistakes
Understand experience means faced many problems and provided solutions to many
problems. Then people are called what? Experience. So if you want to be experienced developer then you have to
face many problems, many test cases. When you not learn many errors and many
test cases, you cannot be considered as a experienced. Just now 7:00 B student one person come and meet me after this
entire explanation completed he come and ask me sir yesterday I attended one
interview uh after interview completed he asked me re tell me really are you fresher or
experienced so what is our answer we are experienced
freshers we are HK product we know everything what inter what working
employees knows everything we know enter you are expecting from pressure only is a small definition and and next answer
immediately I don't know what expectation one definition next question I don't second definition third question
I don't know so I don't know more expecting from the freshers but when you're giving every question answer your
face confused say feel that fresh experience he will face he will feel
like that so if you learn every point what I am explaining definitely you will
get job and then that interviewer told okay then let me ask some questions from advance sorry advance hour not started
yet I'm learning core java half only completed okay then complete fully and come back so your job is available so
please learn every point whatever instructions I am giving you here if you follow implement my instructions blindly
100% getting job is easy currently number of openings are less Okay,
openings are less but once you get opportunity to attend interview 100% you
will get job. Believe me follow me. Okay
Sudir I will teach you what is public static wide main everything. Will you guarantee me tomorrow onwards you will
continue class? If I teach those topics now 100% I'm
assuring tomorrow onwards you will not come. Pakka I'll write in a B paper.
Public comes under fourth chapter. Static comes under fifth chapter. You are asking me to teach fourth fifth
chapter. Video comes under sixth chapter. You are asking me to teach next coming chapters. Today we are in first
chapter. You are asking me to teach next chapters.
What do you want to say? And you are experienced. I am experienced.
Chip
if I'm not talking something means you cannot understand okay it's not YouTube class right it is not YouTube for views
purpose I'm not teaching now I'm not teaching here for the already completed people YouTube videos are for the
students who already completed Java and only for giving some clarity to the
already completed people you are fresher Just now you are doing baby steps. Uh
you are just started balancing but I'm beating you backside to run. Okay. Now
not possible. So silently follow me. Don't show your over action talents.
Uh can I expect everyone have completed yesterday that 30 questions? Yeah.
Everyone only 30 you got more than 30. More counting 30 completed. Stop. I said
minimum 30 not maximum 30. Okay. So I'm expecting you all completed. I'm not
verifying your assignment. It's up to you. You want happy life,
rich life, luxurious life, you have to complete the given assignments. You want
to lead the same poor life, the same begging life. Currently you are in begging life only. Now every month first
week you are begging your father for next month money. No. uh you want to continue the same beginning life then
don't study don't practice I'm not going to check your assignment morning one student send message sir how can where I
can post my assignment no need to post anywhere it is up to you your heart will tell you did right or wronger understand
my point when you got some doubts you can post your doubts to me let us we will discuss either in the class or
after class your wish okay now during class or after class we'll discuss but
completing ing assignment it is your headache not my headache I'll give you assignments okay done today we are going
to start our next chapter let's see is there any topic pending
as part of our syllabus
/ r/f try yourself and if you got doubt ask
Huh. So what is Java? Why Java? Who invented? What are softwares required to develop
Java? Installing Java software. Essential statements. Steps to develop
program one. More programs. Escape sequence characters. Uh solving compile
time runtime errors. Compiler and JVM activities. Compiler take source code. Source file name as a argument. Argument
means input. Read the source code. Verify syntaxes. No mistakes. Convert it to byte code. Uh next JVM. Take the bite
code. Read the bite code. Take the class name as argument. Search for the doclass file with the given class. If found then
read the byte code. Execution starts from main method. Whatever write in the main method that is executed. Uh okay.
Let me explain quickly. JVM architecture basics. Right up.
JVM architecture basics.
JVM architecture basics. First point, what is a JVM?
JVM stands for Java virtual
machine. Machine
computer a computer laptop is nothing but what? Machine. uh this machine is
created in our computer virtually. Do you know video games? video game one uh
car game if you play the car real car is created in the computer logically that
logical representation of a computer is called what virtual machine more details
I'll explain as part of JVM architecture currently what you are understanding basics not details just understanding
purpose only so JVM stands for Java virtual machine next what is JVM
I am not asking I'm not asking what is the abbreviation
of JVM. I'm asking what is JVM? Uh JVM is a Java platform.
JVM is a Java platform,
what is it? Uh software. What software?
It is a translation software. It converts by code to
tell me JVM. JVM running the byte code
by its owner with the help of OS. Any program will be executed by OS only.
Understand? Every program is executed by OS only. Now JVM executes a Java byte
code with the help of OS. Sir, when OS can execute every program, why in the
middle JVM is there? Java program converted into which which format byte
code. Is byte code understandable to OS? No. What language you know? Hindi. You
came to which state? Andra Telangana. Andra Telangana state. No. Hindi. No.
What is our language? Telugu. Of course, we know but we don't speak. Okay. Uh so
what is our native language? Telugu. Can you understand Telugu? No. So what am I
doing? I am converting my Telugu to your understandable language Hindi or common
language what? English. If I want live or stay in any of the
states available in our India or any country available in this world, I
should learn specific language of state or common language of all states and countries.
What is the common language? English. Uh tell me now if our Java program want to
be executed in all operating systems I should take the operating system
specific language or common language common language suppose I am andra
person okay andra talangana telu person now suddenly I got a job ons-site
opportunity to Japan okay now I'm going to Japan tomorrow now I land there in
Japan land in the airport Okay. Now the moment I trying to catch one taxi there
to go to my hotel and tell me now I'm going on talking.
Okay. If I say in Telugu can he understand my Telugu then what I require?
Uh English also you cannot understand because Japan people like only their native language Japanese. Uh what I
required I know Telugu. I know English. Telugu. Nobody knows. English some
people know. Uh now I want to talk to Japanese people. If I say in English, Babu taxi, hello taxi, please come here.
I want to go to this XY Z hotel. Uh can he take me to there? No. He will look at me and say Ohio Gujas
means he will say only hi. Oh Gujas means in Japanese word. Hi sir. How do you know Japanese sir? My client is from
Japan. Okay. My client is Sony. Sony you know.
Sony TV there. No, Sony music systems are there. Now, Sony
electronic device company is there. Now, uh that Sony company we develop a software. Sony company is a
manufacturing semiconductor. Semiconductor means if you want to run your electronic devices, semiconductor
is required. That semiconductor manufacturing project we developed for Sony company. So I got an opportunity to
work with the Sony company who is belongs to Japan. Then my company has provided training on Japanese. First day
I went with lot of excitement so that I can go to Japan for next year for onsite. Then first day my Japanese
teacher came. Hi everyone try to tell me along with me. Oh Guja
what is that? Oh Guja. Okay repeated that one word only finally I learned.
Okay. Second day jump. No Japan. Okay. That language Japanese language I felt
very difficult because my pronunciation my brain is not accepted and tell me
because my brain is not accepted. Is it difficult? No. For me it is difficult
not for all my other team members some of the people have enjoyed that language and they learn and went to the Japan. I
felt I poor Japanese all I don't come I'll work from here. So what is tough? If you feel something
is tough, it is not really tough. Sir, Java is tough. No, you are not liking
it. Once you like it, you will learn. I didn't feel go to Japan, working in Japan is important for me because if I
go to Japan, who will teach Java to you? Yes or no? My target is different. My
target is not onsite. My target to be in USA,
United States of Amir P. If I am in USA,
not America. Amir P. See in this USA these many different
state people are coming here. Listen carefully. If I work for Japan company
Sony, I am making only CEO Sony CEO rich more. If I work in air amir how many
families is settling in the life? One student got job means three
generations are get settled. Three generations become minimum minimum three generations become rich. Number one
parents. Number two you. Number three your children. If childrens are also
studying good and getting job the next three generations will become see look at that that chain three chain we told
in one movie now I'm doing my job my brother did his
job my brother has studied very hard and got job and my parents he and me all
three people get settled well and now I also working very hard my parents again
my me and my children's again become what settle level. So what I realized if
I give my services to one software company only that company CEO and me are
becoming rich becoming settled. But I realized that I came to this world not
for working for one person working for these many people. So these many
families so I am here to serve the society not to serve to my family or to serve to one company. I realized it and
I quit development and I come to fully teaching. I learned development fully.
What I need to develop in company, how to develop projects, what type of mindset I required fully I learned and
I'm not enjoying the development because what I required the development knowledge already again but further I'm
not enjoying I'm not feeling you know to be stay there. I'm missing what my students my missing my my lecture I'm
missing my teaching then slowly I come back to the teaching development both I'm doing one day my my friend okay my
friend is Mr. Rahun okay he also come along with me to the classes one day he come to see how I'm teaching morning to
evening when you work in software company you are using too much of your brain so you got feel tired
by evening generally when he's talking to me I say okay mama tomorrow we'll meet but once I come on to the das at
6:00 up to 9 I used to take two batches he was sitting there in the batches and
started observing me full energy I got like boost okay and started teaching with the full energy By 9:00 als I have
smile on my face. Then he realized one day and told Har in company I never see
this much energetic but in teaching on das I seen so much energetic why where is the different okay then I realized
okay now I am not suitable for development my life is suitable for teaching then quit and I come to fully
teaching if I am now in the development definitely I would be in USA with my
friends not this USA that USA okay my friends are earning salary what I am
earning more than four times more than my salary they're earning always my friend Arun called me every weekend
still you didn't get bored with the teaching no because it's my passion now
when you feel something your passion then you never feel bored because every day you'll feel new I said uh yeah yeah
I we are so close he called me like anything wor still you are there you are
working there for 12 hours morning 7 to night 9 I'll keep on work 12 hours
almost you are working here if you come just 5 hours only you have to work you will have personal life family life and
rich life you working there like a slave come on quit okay next year I'll come to
USA every year when HB H1B visa processing time he will call shall I
make it shall I process H1B yeah next year we will try okay so my passion is teaching. So I am
enjoying a lot in my teaching. So if you also wanted to enjoy your life, I am
ready to help you. If you also settle your life only one person sir, only one
you work hard then your entire family tree will become rich.
Really I'm telling because I experienced with my family. Okay. Now we are better than you know previous my parents my
parents generation to our children my my generation we are better and my children's generation definitely will be
better than our my generation it's only one person hard work my brother hard work my brother one person got job
entire our family status got changed so take it serious nana you are in
hyderabad in the hostel not for time pass not for lay down on the bed and not
for just moving your Instagram res and uh YouTube shots. So if you find five
minutes of free time also if you want to watch Instagram res no problem go but
search for what Java res Java definition today what different types of
application different types of Java applications go to reals search for that
first priority to today class revision after today class revision completed you find free time then enjoy your life with
reals and YouTube whatever you want I don't say don't have Entertainment. Entertainment time you have to fix this
time to this time. Remaining time I have to work hard for my Java. First be attitude to Java. How many months you
have to work hard? 3 months. 6 months. No 3 months only. For core java you have
to work hard. These three months core java, html only three courses you have to you have to learn very hard depth.
Remaining all courses are top of them. Now just listen
advanced Java just you need to listen. No need to practice. Spring just you need to listen. No need to practice.
Okay. Only core Java, VR, HTML. These three courses you have to work hard,
study compulsory. You have to buy hard after going to room. Yesterday I told you what is compile time error, what is
runtime error, what is compiler, what is JVM. You have to buy hard the sentences and you have to remember because core
Java, var HTML are languages. You are learning new words, new terminology, new
grammar. You will learn only by speaking advanced Java statements paragraph what
you learn nothing only study learning will be only in core Java HTML
nicely students are ignoring learning these three and spending hard work on advanc what you'll get nothing you'll
feel advanc tough spring more tough so change your mind tell me now what is a
Java JVM JVM is a platform tell me what is JVM it is a translation software it
is running Java byte code. Is it running Java byte code by directly? No, with the
help of OS. Why OS required? Where I started there and I come to lot of
distance. Uh now I got onsite opportunity to go to Japan. When I go to Japan, I can speak only in English. But
they cannot understand my English. I have to translate English to
tell me Telugu to my brain know only what Telugu. I converted Telugu to
English. English to Japanese. Tell me, do I know how to convert to Japanese? No. In my brain,
Telugu. There my mouth translated to English. What came out? English. Then I
need someone to translate this English to Japanese.
Who is the translator? One person required broker in Japan. I hired one person who can
translate English to Japanese. Then I done my job there. After one month I got
one more client from China. Assumes assume I don't have client in China.
Assume I got one more client in China. Can I go to China for uh uh work with my
client in China? Yes. But what language they know? Chinese. What language I
know? Telugu. English. Can I translate Telugu to English? Yes. Can I translate
English to China? No. What should I do again? I should hire another translator
who knows English and Chinese. Are you connecting?
One person given output Chinese uh English need one
translator to convert it to uh Japanese. Second translator required to convert
the same output to China. Uh now I went to the Singapore Singapore language.
Okay. France. What the language? French. Okay. I went to the France. Okay. In the France, what
language required? French. English should convert it to Chinese. Okay. Japanese, then Chinese, then French. For
that, I need a translator. Now, now this translator, one translator, three different translators.
All three different translators should know which language, English, and their own individual. Are you catching my
point? Japanese is Windows operating system. Japan. Japan is Windows
operating system. China is come on guess Linux. Uh France is Mac OS. Now our
computer our English is nothing but Andra Talangana. Okay. So I have born
and brought up in which part of my in this world least bother where I'm going
and working least bother because I know common language and I have translator to
convert this common language so that I become platform dependent or platform independent.
So tell me if you want to make your program platform independent what we required number one common language
number two translator. So what is the common language of Java byte code? What
is the translator? JVM. Uh do we have JVM for every operating system? Yes. All
operating system JVM taking same code called what? Byte code. Uh JVM there in
Windows operating system. Take the byte code converting to machine language of
Windows and asking the Windows to execute. Same byte code is taking by JVM
translating into Linux machine language asking the Linux to execute. Are you following? Same bite code is giving to
whom now? Mac OS JVM. Mac OS JVM converting to Mac machine language and
then executing what? Macy Mac OS. So tell me how Java achieved platform
independency. In Java programs are not in Java programs are not compiled
directly into machine language of the operating system. They are translating into home byte code which is the common
language of all operating system. Further the byte code is converted into machine language of a particular
operating system and executed. Java achieved platform independency because of two things. Number one, bite code.
Number two, JVM. In Java, uh Java program is not compiled targeting to one
OS. It is compiled into byte code which is a intermediate language of all operating system. Further it is
translated into machine language of particular OS by JVM. So finally tell me what is JVM? JVM is a Java platform.
Java platform means runtime environment. Java platform. Uh it is a
translation software.
Translation software.
It is responsible for running Java byte code
by converting it into by converting it into
current OS machine language.
Current OS machine language
Uh tell me now what is the purpose of JVM? When C and C++ language doesn't
have JVM, why Java need JVM? Uh JVME is a mentor for
JVME is a mentor for achieving
platform platform independency.
JVME is a meant for achieving platform independency.
Java. Okay, one wait one minute. We have we have
separate JVM for every OS. We have separate JVM for every OS for
running the same byte code
specific to each OS separately.
Hence the same Java compiled code
can be executed in every OS.
Hence we can say
No, you can sit anywhere. This is your room. No restrictions. Not next to your lover.
Okay. Now, if you have a lover in the class, you should sit separated.
Last batch when lovers came to the class, they want to sit next together.
There was a fighting with admin. What is your problem? You are in which year it
is 2024. Okay. You are thinking like a old people. Oh namaskar. This is not a park.
So we convinced him a lot. Finally agreed. Okay. Ch don't cry.
You know the beauty. Finally, they didn't take admission to my class.
Okay.
Please add by JVM in every OS by JVM.
Hence we can say Java is platform independent language.
Make it fast. Nana
Uh can you visualize the diagram
below diagram shows Java
platform platform independency
Everyone completed up to here.
Students,
are you writing a or acting a
if you don't write, you are the loser, not me. So don't be a lazy person.
Uh tell me I am taking which operating system computer
any OS you are compiling now compile in any OS
execute in any OS that is the Java plus no compile in any OS execute in any OS
I'm choosing don't write wait a minute choose any OS I least bother any OS okay
nice in this OS I develop one Java program called ABC Java. Don't write
ABC. Java. Now tell me what is the logic in ABC Java? List maybe maybe printing
your name, adding subtracting one bank big project or you know book ticket project anything. Okay. Now this is a
source code. Now this is source code file. I have to give to whom now? Compiler. So compiler software. Don't
write listen first I'll give time I gave this ABC Java file to compiler then
compiler software will generate dotclass file ABC dotclass tell me inside this
ABCLass what is there machine language cod byte cod
code bab
you Red t-shirt.
What are you doing? Nothing then. Why you are in the class?
Why are you in the class
when you do nothing? Why are you in the class? Is today first class to you?
And then what is the problem? Not feeling well
feeling okay and then why you are not listening
I'm asking question of not understanding or not not feeling to listen
understanding not feeling to listener then I'm writing some diagram here and
you're looking downwards sitting like this then you miss the point
If you are feeling something, let me know. Everything good now. Okay. Look at the screen.
When you are not listening, immediately I'll get the notification. I told you know wherever you sit,
whatever you do, immediately get to your mind. Your mind will be disconnected to my mind. I look at you. So please don't
feel that it is a college. It is a college. Okay, I can do whatever I want.
I can sit however I want. Torture will be there if you don't listen the class properly. Okay, you are here for
learning. I am working not for you. I am working for your parents.
Understood? If you get a job, your parents
22 years of investment will get result. Are they doing investment on you for
last 22 years? From the day not from the day you born from the day your mother
conceive you from the day onwards there is investment on you. Correct? Uh so lot of investment has
done on you and your parents are expecting result from you. The result
for your parents purpose for your purpose. When you get a job your parents are feel
so happy because they no need to give money from tomorrow. No, now they feel happy. Now my son
become individual. My my daughter become individual. They can end their money.
They can leave their life by their own without my help. And when you get job, will they ask a single rupee from you?
Never. Even if you're ready to give also they look at I don't want your money get out. You
save your money, invest your money, spend your money, settle yourself. So Nana, I am here to working for your
parents. I want to give success to your parents with your job. When you are not listening, when you are not studying,
definitely I will torture you. No doubt in that. I will question you. Why you are not listening? What is your problem?
Okay. Now, definitely I don't feel you know the student may feel bad tomorrow
may not come. He may not refer even juniors to my class. I don't care.
Okay. So, you are juniors you are like-minded people. If you are if you are a lazy person your juniors also
lazy. Why I want lazy people in my class when you stop coming I'll be so happy so that your your next level juniors also
will not come. Lazy people will not come. Only active people will come. They will get success. I will also get
success. My fundamental theory is very very simple. I want successful people in the
class. Who want job? They only should be there in the class. That is what my intention. So if I question you, if you
feel I'm troubling, that is your mistake. So don't be lazy in that class. We have to listen
and answer to my questions. Okay. Now tell me now ABC. Java is a
source file. ABC Java is called source file. Uh compiler is generating
compiled code. What? What is the compiled code? Translated code. What is that compiled code?
ABC.class. class ABC.class class repeating again. ABC Java file is a
source code given to compiler. Compiler convert the source code to write code.
Save inclass file. I'm not talking about the file name. I'm talking about only extension.
Okay. Now tell me this dotclass file contains what? Byte code. Now you have to run this byte code. Now where where
you are planning to run this byte code in any computer, right? But I have to decide in which OS you want to execute.
I can compile in any OS because the output is a machine language specific to one OS or common code to all OS
common code to all OS. So that's why compilation time development time
compilation time I no need to worry about OS but execution is specific to
one OS. Tell me I am going to which country? Japan then I have to find a a
mediator translator Japanese right specific to Japanese I have to find. So
in which OS you want to execute? Windows.
Okay Windows when I take Windows tell me into Windows I am taking this ABC.class
file. I downloaded ABC.class file here. So much then now I am giving this
ABC.class file to whom now? JVM
am I right? Now the JVM what is doing? It is generates
uh what machine language code generate ML machine language for which operating
system? Windows. Then Windows executes
our program produces
output. Understand everyone? Uh can you please help me to understand now? Same code.
Can I bring it to Linux computer? Linux. Uh tell me here we are bringing
different programmer. Same programmer. ABC.class. Same compile code. That same
compile code we are giving to whom now? JVM. JVM. Wonderful. What JVM will do now?
Generates generates machine language for
uh Linux. Okay. In place of for generate of
machine language of Linux, machine language of Windows. Uh
then which operating system Linux executes
our program produce output.
Why should I type again? Get a copy paste. Do smart work. Understood? Uh
next tell me I'm going to next OS. What is that next OS? Mac OS. Mac OS. Generally people call it as Mac OS. Uh
then tell me here also we are downloading same program ABC.class.
Uh tell me now ABC.class we are giving to whom now? JVM. What JVM is doing?
Generates machine language of of Mac.
Wonderful. Uh what it will do? Mac OS
Mac OS executes
our program and produce our understood how Java H platform independency
How Java H platform independency don't write to Hue platform independency
unlike in C and C++ in Java language program not compile targeting to OS and
in source code also we don't write any statement specific to one OS in Java
compiled code in Java compiled code doesn't
In Java compiled code doesn't contain machine language instead it contains an
intermediate code called bite code which is not understandable to human and also to OS. It is JVM understandable course.
Uh next while execution the Java compiler code byte code JVM converts
into JVM converts into
let me write here while execution JVM converts
the Java compile code byte code into current OS specific machine
language and it executes it in a platform independent way. Uh next if you
want to execute it should be available in every OS because we have JVM for every OS to run the same compiled code
in all operating system. Java program become platform independent mean Java program supports vah means write once
run anywhere. Uh to achieve platform independence compared to C in Java
machine language generation is moved from compilation phase to take these points not required light. Uh Java
program development compilation execution procedure in the Java programming language all source code is
first written in plain text files ending with Java extension. Those source files
are then compiled into dotclass files by the Java C compiler. A dotclass files
doesn't contain code that is native to your processor. It instead contains a bite code, the native language of Java
virtual machine. The Java launcher tool then runs your application with an instance instance and one copy one copy
of Java virtual machine. This is the diagram. My program this is a source code given to compiler. Compiler is
crushing. Do you know sugar cane machine? When you give sugar cane crushing and converting
into sugar and cane juice. No. Uh this is a sugar cane and given to compiler
crushing and giving to juice. Juice is nothing but bite code. The bite code we give to Java
virtual machine. Java virtual machine converting into zeros and one. Zeros and one is nothing but machine language and
given to my program nothing but program nothing but OS to the OS and
give the output.
Uh this is the diagram for platform independency. Look at the ABC.
Java given to compiler. Compiler generates what? ABC.class file which contains byte code. Same abc.class file
we taken to Windows. Same to same to okay let me write it in a
different way so that you'll get feeling [Music]
Yeah. Can you write this diagram? Right. One second.
Uh tell me in which OS are you compiling this program? Any. So tell me now the
compiler is specific to particular OS common to all all software I mean all OS
always. So it is called Java compiler. Then is this JVM same for all operating
system? Three different JVM sir. Why this is JVM should work for Windows.
This JVM should work for Linux. This JVM should work for Solus. Write on this.
This is Windows JVM, Linux JVM, Solar Shape. Same diagram I type there. But this representation is diagrammatic
representation.
Ji, what is the problem?
Pradhan yeah you are removing from this class buddy you can talk to the admin
and people whoever replied yes yes yes yes one minute let me remove all them
give me one minute
one second guysumar
prahan removing from the class talk to admin next other students whoever replied yes
okay Lakshmi I'm removing you from the class talk to admin
next
I clearly told you don't show your talent when you are showing your talent
I will show my talent Okay.
Vina. Sure. Wow. Super. Huh?
Huh?
Anukar,
do you know him? You share your number also to him. Do you know him?
day. Anybody coming to your house and asking you to invite for something, you
will go with them. Alan, huh?
You will go through there and then uh blindly believe them like you know gorill
you know sheep sheeps you know how they will go like that you will bend your head and go belong with them easy is he
admin of your class
such a worstminded mindless people you are whoever asking your details you are
providing your details
Who is 8915301764?
8915301764. Who is that?
Reply in chat window otherwise I'll remove you from the class.
Yeah, Harish Shankar, why did you come to this batch again? Every batch why you are joining.
So I'll talk to admin and I'll terminate you from this batch.
He's my old student. Every batch is coming.
online students again I'm telling you don't encourage anyone to create groups
there is a lot of problems we we are facing with the groups there's a lot of safety is missing group creating and say
going for a private chat hi baby huh
Did I call your name?
Did I call your then why you are attention?
Okay.
Huh? Don't get attention mama
moana you want execute different different programs sir same program in different operating system sir
different mona k uh that's why I'm giving same program
if you want to run subtraction program then you give subtraction program division program division program that's
If I taken class name as what? A B C. Clear? Uh please write down all guys
completed already. Everyone done? Shall I proceed next
points? Uh down your right.
Online students be careful with the people who want to who are asking you to come to join this group that group they
will misuse your details. Okay, I know everything. I will create
everything. When to create group, when to add you to the group, when to create Google classroom, everything I will give
you information. Clear? So, don't be trapped by the other people.
Yeah. Please write down these three points.
by two time compile.
Ahmed
Runtime is why compile. Compilation means verifying the syntaxes.
Verify syntaxes converted to the new code and save in the system. That is called compilation.
Execution means no syntax verification.
Yeah, I will tell you all the points. Sami, I'll explain.
Where did I share telegram link previously?
I didn't create any telegram group completed.
While writing notes, don't read word by word. Read sentence by sentence.
I'll be very strict for the people who are not studying and doing some wrong
with other students. Okay? As long as you are here for gaining the subject, helping each other, respecting each
other, I'll be so friendly with you. Clear my point? So whatever you want, I
am ready to provide you everything. But when you are not respectful to others, when you are
misusing the freedom, definitely I will strict on that point. Okay? So that time
don't get angry on me. Don't do mistake. Don't get punishment. Huh? Now write
this diagram so that you'll get more clarity.
Yeah. For both offline students and online students, we have created separate
Google classroom for offline students separately, online students separately. Okay. We will add you to the offline
online classrooms separately. Admin will add. Clear my point. Point number one.
Point number two. And in the Google classroom I will share
daily material. I will upload daily material. Okay. Today notes today, tomorrow notes tomorrow. Daily I will
upload. Sometimes I may give you uh running notes in the class or sometimes
I'll completely explain and I'll share you uh the notes in the Google classroom. When I don't give the time to
write notes in the class after going to room compulsory you should fail all the slides into your notebook. Understood?
You should not leave that space empty for future to write. Remember later
becomes never. If you don't work today, tomorrow you cannot work because tomorrow another work is coming now. So
today work today only you have to complete next. You no need to download any slide or any program anything from
the Google classroom to your system because this Google classroom will be there forever.
As long as Google company will be there that many days this Google classroom
will be there. I don't remove it. I don't remove the material. material will be there forever. It's like a slideshow.
Okay? When you want to study which chapter, you can go directly to that chapter, open the slides and you can
read understand I will I will upload like a images slides so that it is easy
for you to run even in your mobile also. Clear my point no need to download.
Don't waste the space in your mobile and your uh system hard disk. So just happily you can play it and you can
watch and read everything. But remember Google classroom will be only for future
reference purpose not for learning. So you have to learn everything from your notes. Every point I am sharing in the
Google classroom you have to fade in your notes and you have to refer your notes. Notes is very important. What you
write only your brain can remember. What I am writing only I can remember. You cannot remember. Okay. That's why notes
is very important.
Come on, make it fast. Slowly you are writing.
Yeah, Karthikumar I will I will go just a minute.
completed. Okay. Today as a assignment
I will give you one video I want you watch at home. It's entry
questions. Okay. Video when I'm giving that is not regular class that is extra
knowledge. Okay. Everyone shall I share some extra knowledge? Uh extra knowledge purpose I
will share some videos after going to home. If you find free time you can watch videos are extra knowledge. First
you have to practice current class topic. Current class topic you have to complete then also spend more time for
extra knowledge. If you feel no sir I don't want any extra knowledge don't watch.
understand my point that is not regular class content extra knowledge content
purpose interview preparation purpose I am sharing you the m uh some more material notes and videos and everything
if you are interested study extra content watch extra video do you need to pay any extra money no extra money free
okay now free free of cost I'm sharing extra knowledge you can watch it and enjoy it okay uh okay done now let me go
to the next topic in JVM come Uh now tell me what happened when we run
this diagram. Understood. Now next point observe what happened
when we run Java command. Suppose I'm running Java space
uh Java space addition addition. Java space addition. This is the code I have
run some addition program I'm running. Then what will happen here? Java edition. What happened?
What is the problem? Tell me. You are excused.
Uh first point, listen carefully here. How many programs are running? Number
one, Java. Number two, addition. Firstly, addition should execute. Java
should execute. Huh? Java should execute then addition
mitali are you not listening what I'm saying
only you listen Google classroom before and after what I talk you didn't listen
the problem with online students half of they will listen half of they don't listen or is it my English problem
I said admin will add you to Google classroom then why you asking me
huh first point Java command starts JVM as one process
don't write listen very important j the java command
here use what first command java the java command starts jvm
as one process. Everyone look at here. You know
today topic is very important. Please everyone focus control shift del task manager.
In task manager you have process. Now this is process zoom meetings first
process. This is one application for every software you are running. One
process. Can you see here? Processes. Uh what the processes? One process create
for Zoom meeting. One process create for Windows Explorer. One process task
manager, Google Chrome, feedback hub. Why you started? Click close and task uh
edit plus. So for each one you started will be create one process. Observe here when I run VC media player. WC media
player I started. Okay. When I start VC media player observe VC media process
added or not. Any program or any software you run in your system one
process is created. Let me show you this is our JVM. Here I
am running Java edition. When I run Java edition you
have already compiled. Huh? Java C edition Java you have already compiled
and when you already compiled background what happened? Class file is created.
Class file is created
addition.class already there. When you run Java edition this is our operating
system. This is operating system. I'm writing rough diagram. Main diagram I'll give
you in the separate class. Okay. JVM architecture separate chapter is there. Here only I'm explaining basic
understanding purpose. Okay. Uh now this is our operating system. Which operating system?
Which operating system? Any operating system? Nice understanding. Super. Uh then this operating system is already
controlling hard disk or not. Who will who will monitor hard disk? Operating
system. So operating system is managing hard disk. In hard disk already we have
already we have addition java file. Uh after compilation we got
addition.class. edition do java edition.class. Okay. Now when you run java edition tell me what
happened. JVM is started as one process.
JVM is started as one process. And this is JVM started as one process
by occupying some memory from where RAM. Uh all programs are executed where
inside RAM. So JVM started as a one process by occupying some memory from
RAM. This is step number one. All the people understand step number two. Uh
tell me what is the responsibility of JVM? JVM is responsible for running the
given class. What the class addition? Tell me currently is addition class available inside JVM memory.
This is JVM memory. Now is it available in JVM memory? No. Can it execute or cannot execute? Cannot execute. If you
want to execute Java program by JVM, the Java byte code must be must be loaded
must be loaded into must be loaded into JVM memorina. So tell me what is the
first step happen inside Java program execution is JVM straight away running
the program. No the first step what happen here? Loading.
First step what happen? Loading. Uh first step loading. After loading is Java program directly executed? No. Java
program may contain some malicious code some virus also. Now Java program meant for developing standalone applications.
Internet application standalone application basically JVM sorry basically Java
programming is developed for supporting internet application then Java programs are downloading from the internet into
your system loading into JVM memory after loading into JVM memory there may
be a chance that it may contain some malicious code malicious code and wrong code some corrupted code if you run that
virus code then the virus is spread entire your computer all your files will be corrupted that's Why? JVM will not
execute Java program directly. It will go to some phase called what?
Verification. What phase? Verification. Verify. Loading.
Verifying. FI engine. Now verifying. So first it is loaded. Bite code is loaded
into JVM. After bite code loading, JVM verifies the loaded bite code valid or
not. If the loaded bite code is not valid then it will throw error. Error
exception. JVM throwing errors are runtime errors. Runtime errors are called exception. Uh
it will throw exception. Everyone understand second step. Uh tell me again when you run Java edition. First step
what happen? JVM is started as a process by occupying some memory from RAM. Step
number two uh JVM search for addition.class class file in the hard
disk found. If found then it load the class file into JVM. After loading third
step it verifies the loaded by code valid or not. If valid then execution
will be started. If not valid it will throw exception. Okay. Assume it is
valid. If it is valid then execution started. Listen carefully. Java program
execution machine language or bite code
JVM taking byte machine language code byte code is bite code directly can be
executed no it has to translate it into machine language code all people are
involving tell me byte code should be translated into machine language
complete code at a time line by line you are in compilation phase running phase
in running line by line should execute. Now first line taken converted to machine language executed. Go to next
line converted to machine language executed. Go to third line converted to
machine language executed. Like that all lines are executed. Everyone accepted? So tell me JVM executes a program all
lines at a time line by line. line by line. When it is executed a line by line, uh tell me which translator I
required compiler, interpreter. There are two translation softwares are
there. Number one compiler, number two interpreter entire code at a time I want
to translate save don't want execute I don't want to execute translate and save
in the hard disk. Then which translator I have to use compiler are you answering or listening
don't listen listen days are golden days college okay in college you will listen
again listen again listen and finally forget okay now here you are not allowed to
just listen listen reply then you will remember listen reply remember then you
can go and apply in the system so when you not remember you cannot apply that is a problem. So come on everyone. So
how many steps are there in Java program execution? Number one. Number one JVM created as a process by
occupying memory from RAM. Step number two JVM search for the given class file
in hard disk. If found loaded into JVM. What is loaded? Dot class file loaded
up. Byte code available in dot class file. Right? Byte code available in the doclass file is loaded into JVM. After loading then
verifying the loaded by code valid or not any malicious code is there. If any malicious code or virus is there then it
will throw exception. If no malicious code is there then it is going for what?
Execution. And tell me execution will go all lines at a time or line by line.
After execution completed is anything saving the system? No. Nothing is saved directly executed and machine language
is destroyed. No file extra file is not creating. Then which translator software
I have to use? Interpreter. So tell me how many translation softares we are using in the program? Two. Number one
compiler. Interpreter. Compiler responsible for translate and save.
Interpreter responsible translate and run. No saving. No saving. So finally
tell me compiler will be used in the compilation phase. Interpreter will be
used in a execution phase. So interpreter translation is called
interpreting it's not called execution we call it as
what interpreting interpretation or interpreting so first loading next one
is what verifying and next one is what interpreting
spelling wise correct or wrong check in Google sometimes I'll forgot spellings okay
it's not English class no don't worry about spellings
Uh now tell me now this in after interpretation
what you will get output. Huh? Come on. After interpretation what
will be coming output from the interpreter? Output of machine language.
No machine language. What is coming out as machine language? You will get output. Interpreter
generate machine language. Then that machine language we are giving to whom?
Of that's what you learn platform independency diagram. Uh now the OS executes.
Now OS executes this machine language.
OS executes this circle. Circle is what? Executes and giving you output.
uh addition result all you will get everyone understand how many steps happen background uh can you please tell
me the step numbers now step number one JVM is created as a
process by occupying some memory from RAM step number two
uh loads the class byte code into JVM M
step number three verifies the loaded by code valid or
not. Step number four interprets the given by code the given
by code converts to machine language converts to machine language
and then executed executed and produces
output and display on console. So totally how many steps are there? Seven.
Can I expect everyone understand? Okay. Who teaches core java in nar it
nares who teaches vari
who teach html in nar it nares instituted nar okay that's why
everything is teaching by nar sir no nar is just a manager he's a MD he's just
managing everything happening in the nar ID then who is taking the responsibility of teaching core java var html
individual workers individual employees or faculties.
Right? Uh same way tell me JVM is a big software. It is a contains different
components inside different components small small programs are there inside. And tell me now who teach Core Java
Core Java faculty. Okay. Who teach Oracle? Oracle faculty. Okay. Who teach
advanc faculty? Now tell me who teacher teacher who listener who load
ah so wonderful h tell me for loading purpose for performing this loading
operation for loading purpose inside JVM we have one special program what the
name of that program name yesterday for printing purpose you have created one class called printer what
you want to print number name that's what the name of the as name printer.
Now tell me now for performing loading operation inside JVM software we have
one class. Everything in Java is what class? Now every program is what class.
Come on tell me. So inside JVM we have one special program for loading purpose. What the name of that class? Loader.
What it is loading? Class. So what the name of the class? Yes. Super marvelous. You got flow.
Okay. Full flow. You got tell me what this program is called? Class loader. Uh
inside JV inside JVM we have a special program
called what? Class loader. Uh tell me interviewer ask a question. Who will
load class into JVM? Answer is JVM. Answer is JVM. No no no no. Answer is
class loader.
Nice. So class loader is responsible for loading class into JVM. Okay. Next
question. Who will verify?
Okay. There is a program called what? Verifier. There is a program called verifier. Uh
what it is verifying? Class over
class coming up class byte code coming what it is verifying.
So what the name of the class? Byte code verifier. So inside JVM we
have one special program to verify the byte code. The name of the program is what? Byte code verifier.
This new version Windows 11 Painter capturing
like code verifier super
little difficult okay but the names you have to remember actually I don't teach uh JVM architecture at this level
uh if I don't is some points missing in the going on class that's why little bit
introduction I'm giving not full introduction okay uh next one tell me now
who is there next up interpreting who will interpret interpreter
interpreter plus one more person there JIT compiler
Java C compiler different JIT compiler different this is Just in time compiler and also one more program there.
Security manager. So totally how many programs are working together? Three programs. For
interpreting actual program is what? Interpreter. Interpreter is slow in
execution. For speed it is taking help of what? JIT compiler. Interpreter is
accessing one program. That program must have permission to access. Huh? The permissions there or not will be
verified by security manager. Okay. So every point I'll explain you detailed
way in the coming classes. Don't worry at this minute. This much knowledge is sufficient. So tell me Java program
execution comes under how many phases? Seven steps. Totally. How many steps are
there? Seven steps are there. Java program execution comes under seven
step. Step number one, JVM is started as a process by occupying memory in RAM.
Then JVM search for the given class file in the hard disk. If not found, it will
throw exception. If found, it loads the class byte code into JVM with the help
of class loader. Uh next third step after loading class it verifies the
loaded bite code valid or not with the help of byte code verifier. If the no if
there is any malicious code immediately it will throw exception terminate the program execution. Tell me Java is a
secure Java is the most secured programming language because of there is
a full level of verification. If there are no malicious code then it allows next level interpreting by JVM
interprets the bite code converted into machine language with the help of interpreter and JIT compiler. Then
machine language is executed by current OS produces output and gives us uh print
the output on the console. So these are total seven steps are there. Java program compilation sorry Java program
execution. Hope you all understand now. So tell me basically if you avoid the external story in the execution totally
how many steps are there? Three number one loading verifying interpreting. Okay
listen this loading is called loading. Verifying is also called linking what we
call linking. Uh loading linking interpret you can call it as a verify or
linking anything is okay. As of now at this stage we want to call it as only verify. If anybody a person say that is
not verified a linking then say both are same synonyms. Okay. Now interpreting is interpreting comfortable right this
diagram first. Have written the question. What happen when you run Java
command? Write down this question first. What will happen when we run Java
command?
Or you can also write basic basic ar JVM architecture
or you can say basic bl overview
your JVM architecture.
Come later question. Uh write on this diagram
is it visible? Okay. One second.
Which diagram more visible to you? You can use the diagram.
Yeah. Which one is compatible? Previous. This one only stop numbers are not there. Both
are same right? Both are same. Only stop numbers are not
there. Red and some colors are there. Don't write Windows OS. Anyways,
machine language executed by JVM with the help of OS and produces output.
I'll tell you write down as I
here written windows are just OS. Okay. Any OS you can
same thing happen in every OS.
Yeah, online students when completed no need to replace
if class loader unable to find the class to load then it will throw. R means
runtime error exception okay CNF class not found exception CF class format
error don't worry I will explain it there just hold it okay what the name of the exceptions you don't need to remember at this stage just only one
point should have in your mind exception coming and then just written shortcuts
Yeah, I will post uh the steps here. One, seven steps are there. Now, all steps I will post in our Google
classroom. You can write there. Okay. Now, also I will upload one more small
diagram. Look at this diagram. Completed this one offline students.
So you should improve your writing skills slowly writing word by word letter by letter.
Uh totally program compilation execution develop
compile execution comes under five phases. These are the five phases. Conclusion of
our first chapter. Develop, compile, execute a Java program comes under five
steps. Step number one, editing. Editing and not our movies. Editing.
Editing and typing. Okay. In editor, you'll do editing. Editing or typing. Next compiling. Then execution.
Execution is one step or three steps. Three steps. First loading, then verifying, then interpreting. Uh first
in editing phase you will type the program save with Java extension where
in hard disk this is a hard disk in a hard disk. Okay. Second step compiling you will compile the Java file with Java
C compiler and you got what? Class file. Okay. Now class file Java file both are
in the same folder. Then you are executing by using which command? Java
Java class name. Then JVM is started JVM phases.
JVM is started this da this rectangle box is nothing but JVM. Oh sir in the
previous diagram we written circle now you are writing a box so I'm confusing sir it's okay diagram point of because
operating system is a circle so I written there what circle understood so there is no shape to the JVM in which
shape you want to use it accord it's like a water if you move water from one container to another container changing
it shape now like that now this is JVM whenever Java command JVM da started
then in the da JVM phases are there how How many phases? Three. First loading. In loading phase, who is working?
Class loader. Class loader. Searching for a doclass file in a hard disk. The same hard disk. It is taking searching
for class file in hard disk. Found reading that arrow mark up. Reading the bite code and storing inside JVM. Sir,
what is this method area sir? In JVM, the place where Java programs are stored
is called what? Method area. Are you following my point? Tell me. Now you come to this building. This building
name is what? Nacker building. In Nacker building where you are sitting in first floor. That first floor is
nothing but method area. Okay. So in JVM we have different places are there. One
of the places is what? Method area. Read the bite code stored inside method area.
If class file is not found, it will throw exception. Next uh if the loaded bite code found loaded, next step is
what? Verify. Who will come to the picture? Bite code verifier. With alpha byte code verifier, it will verify the
bite code stored inside the method area. If found valid, it will continue for interpretation. Otherwise, it will throw
exception. Then next step is what? Interpreting. Interpret in the interpretation phase. Interpreter read
the bite code from the method area, converts to machine language, executed, display output. So totally Java program
development, compilation, execution comes under how many phases? Five phases. Uh first one editing or
developing. Developing. Developing or typing can say typing. Next. Okay. Do one thing. Type and save. Next compile.
Next execute. Loading. Verify. Interrupt.
Understood? Now tell me now onwards. Whenever you type Java C, will you visualize the class file storing in the
hard disk? Whenever I type Java, will you visualize hard disk coming into JVM?
uh in a compilation it is going into hard disk. In execution is coming into
coming from hard disk into JVM. You should visualize in your command prompt you have visualize ah JVM is created
into JVM byte code is loaded verified execution going on converting to machine
language running and output is displayed on the console. All five phases your mind should be able to visualize.
Everyone understood? So we today onwards you have to follow sincerely this diagram final diagram okay I'm going to
share two diagrams already you have written one diagram the diagram notes following by this diagram plus one more
diagram is there I will share all two diagrams you copy into your notes and come tomorrow okay now offline students
you wait yeah online students everyone understood any questions
Yeah, observe here I have created Google classroom already.
I created a folder called introduction to Java. Currently it is empty. I will
upload the material here. Okay, you will get material here. So where you can find
in your Google classroom you click on what classwork. If you click on
classwork for what purpose you want admin respond
what did I say? Do you know English?
Did I ask you to send message to the admin? Why are you showing your extra talent?
I said admin will add you. Why you are calling admin? Listen carefully.
Admin will add you. You no need to ping him.
Don't add extra masala to your mind. Admin will add you. Okay. If admin by
evening if you are not in Google classroom send message to me
online students everyone if you are not there in the Google classroom if you didn't how can you know
the Google classroom added or not open your email afternoon after 3 p.m. after
3 p.m. Open your email. You will have invitation.
You will have invitation in your email. Click on that invitation and join. If you didn't receive the invitation to
your inbox, then after 3 p.m. send message to me. Is it clear? Not to
admin. Send message to me.
Okay. Once you are added, you will see two folders in the classwork. Open
classwork. Here you'll find two folders. What the two folders? Introduction to Java, chapter one, chapter 2 comments.
Currently it is empty. I will add the content in the afternoon. Now I'm busy with other classes. Okay. Uh thank you.
That's all for today class. I'm stop the session.
Extra videos, extra content, everything I will share in the Google classroom only. Okay.
Uh online students, bye. See you tomorrow.

