ript


Good morning everyone. Last class we have completed string handling chapter up to immutability
right and also we understood string operations. How many methods we
completed in string class? First one is empty method. Second
in a string handling chapter what you have to learn in string handling chapter you must
learn the methods available in the string class and their purpose right if
you don't learn that if you don't remember methods you cannot perform operations on string so what are the
methods we have learned as part of string class first one is empty second one is blank is empty is blank we are
performing same operations are different operation uh When is empty returns true
is empty returns true if the string is
empty. When is blank method returns true? When string is empty or space string.
Next length method. Length method returns the number of characters available. Is length method length
property are both the same. Can I call length method by using array object? Can
I call length property by using string object? Next uh two string method. If
you override two string method, what I mean what happen? Object data will be printed. If you don't override string
method, what is printed? Class name at the red hash code in a string class is two string method overridden. Yes. What
is me? What is the purpose of overriding? To print object information.
Okay. Object state. String object state to print. It is overridden. Next um I
want to compare one string to another string. How many ways we can compare? How many ways we can compare? Four ways
we can compare. Number one, double equal to operator. Number two,
equals method. Number three, equals ignore case. Number four, content equals double equal to operator always compare
string objects by using reference. Equals method always compare string
objects by using data with case is equals method string class one method or
overriding method. Overriding method it is available in java.clangobject
class. It is available in java.clangobject class. It is meant for over it is meant for comparing two
string objects. If you don't override it compare two objects by using reference. If you override it compares two objects
by using state of the objects. If you want to compare two student objects by using their data, you must override
equals method in class student in string class already overridden. We don't need to do anything. Just we need to call it.
Uh equals ignore case method is a string class own method or is it the method available in the object class. String
class own method. It is meant for comparing two string objects with with the data by
uh what do you call it? Without considering case. Next content equals method is actually not meant for
comparing two string objects. It is meant for comparing string with string buffer or string builder. If you want to
compare string, we use equals method. Okay. But content equals method is also accepting string but generally we don't
use it. Right? So I think we have completed up to that.
Uh now tell me I want to compare two strings to find their
what the meaning of lexographically. Lexographically means comparing two
strings.
Comparing two strings for finding their difference comparing two strings for
finding their difference to know which string is big which string is smaller.
uh S1 equal to I'm writing double quotes ABC. Okay. And S2 equal to I'm writing
double quotes. Same ABC only I have written. Tell me is there any difference between these two strings? No, both are
equal. If they are equal, I want to get zero. I want to find difference. I don't
want true or false. I want to find a difference. Difference means number. Uh then I have to use a method called
compare room. What another name? Compare of S2. Comparative of S2. I want to
compare two string objects to find their different. I want to find two strings
lexographically means finding their difference. Then control F1. Uh what is
the output we will get? Look at here. Zero. Okay. Zero we will get. Uh next
tell me I want to find two string objects. Okay. Two string objects. And I want to
know which is bigger which is smaller. I'm writing BBC. Now I'm writing S1 dot
compared to of S3. Uh S3 tell me how ABC
is compared with BBC and find the difference. Difference means double equal to operator minus operator. Minus
operator. Difference means minus. Now this ABC minus BC when you write A minus
B a value how much? 97. Minus means arithmetic operator. Arithmetic operator
will work on characters and number. So this character A is converted to AS key
value and P converted to A as key value. A minus B A value 97 minus B 98. What
the value get minus one of the last value? Minus one. And now
tell me if I call here S2. Okay. S3 dot comparative of S
uh two I have written tell me what you'll get now one you will get positive number you
will get so if you want to compare two string objects to know whether they are equal
equal or smaller or bigger
okay smaller bigger then then in that case what I have to use comparative method if equal returns zero if smaller
returns negative number. Okay. And if it is pos bigger returns what? Positive. So
in which situation I have to use a comparative method. I have a array object. String array object I have. Now
the string array object contain multiple strings are there. I want to sort the string objects in the string array. That
means I have to place all lesser less smaller strings left side or big and
bigger strings are what? Right side. That means ascending order alphabetically ascending order. If you want to store then what method I have to
use? Compare method. I want to find whether two strings are equal or not equal. What method I have to use? Equals
method. Okay. Now I'm writing here S4 equal to capital A B C. Tell me S1 S4
content wise equal or not? Come on. Content wise equal or not? S1 dot
comparative of S4. Content wise equal but the case is different. When the case
is different comparative method consider the case now yes a value what 97 capital
a value is what 65 what it return 32 97 minus 65 what will you get 32 okay
I don't want to worry about the case I want to ignore the case and I want to compare in that case I have to use what
compare to ignore case okay in the coming classes when we are discussing with the collections chapter There we
will learn sorting algorithm. I want to sort the elements available in the array in ascending order or descending order.
In that case I have to use which method comparative method. I want read username and password and want to find both are
equal or not equal. Then what method I have to use equals method. Is it clear everyone? Right. So what are the methods
we completed now?
Public return type is boolean. Method name is what? Comparative of
string. Yes. And next uh return type in
return type int. and next public enter
compare to ignore case of string. Okay,
how to call this method? To call this method s1 dot compare to of s_ub_2 what
it returns either zero or zero or negative or positive number it
will return. Okay. Uh next here also same s1 dot compared to ignore case of
s_ub_2 it will not consider case. So what the meaning of lexographically
lexographically means find the difference between the strings and telling which is bigger and which is
smaller. Next now I want to find substring available in this string. I
want to find substring available. For example, I am taking a string like this.
S1 equal to double quotes Java Har Krishna. Uh now here tell me this is a
complete string. Okay, it is complete string. In this complete string, Java
sequence of characters is a substring. Har sequence of characters is a substring. Krishna is a sequence of
characters substring. Even Krisha is also a sequence of characters substring.
I want to find a substring available in this string or not. I want to find a substring available in this string or
not. System out.print len s1 dot what you write uh s1 dot the meth name is
contains what the meth name contains of what you write double quotes. What you
want to find hurry. So tell me hurry is available or not. It will check in this.
That means it will start searching for h a start from zero location. Is it H A H?
No. Is it H? Yes. A. Yes. R. Yes. I Yes. I Now contains method returns what?
True. System dot out print 11 and uh control F11 what output will get? True.
Okay. Uh next. Now I wanted to find Java available or not? Yes. Tell me if I if I
use equals method what happen? Tell me is equals method contains method same or different. Equals method comparing or
searching. Equals method. Searching or comparing?
Comparing it is not searching. All characters in S1 must be equal to the
given string characters. But contains method comparing or searching. Searching. Searching means complete
complete string is must be equal. Some part must be equal some part. Okay. Equals returns a false contains with
returns what? True. Okay. Now tell me if I write contains of small H array
contains method is considering the case or not considering case? Consider the
case. Okay. It is not ignoring the case. By default Java is case sensitive. Then
will it return true or false? False. And then how can I get a true sir? There is no contains ignore case method. Equals
ignore case method is there. Compare ignore case method is there. But contains signal request method is not there. Uh what I have to do I have to
convert all characters available in S1 object to lower case to lowerase method
you have to call to lower case dot contains method you have to call okay to lowerase dot contains then all
characters available in S1 are converted to lower case and then compared with hurry. Now you will get what? True.
Because all characters in S1 converted to small case. J small, H is small, K small. Then we are asking for searching
for what? Small H. All will get what? Small. Okay. No sir. I want to compare
all characters with upper case. Then what to do? Uh I have to write here
lower case. What I should write? Upper case. Convert all characters in the S1 to upper case. Then compare. You will
get true. Answer. Mixed case. Not possible. Mixed case is not there. You have to convert all characters to lower
or upper and compare. So you cannot search for mixed case. Is it clear? No.
My question is okay. Har is found but where? For example, the office boy is
coming. Search for Ballay babu in your class and then he come Balabu. Yes sir.
Raise your hand. Okay. Found. And he left. But his parent wanted to know. His parent has given a instruction to the
Bal Babu. Sit in the first first chair but he's sitting somewhere else. Now he got a doubt. So he called to the office
and asked where my son sit in the classroom go and find. Then now he has to find the place where you sit now. Uh
only knowing is not sufficient. Knowing available where available that means I
want to know where the string is available. That is called index number. String is also implicitly contains index
number. Where all these characters are storing in the string object car. Okay. implicitly carry a object will be there.
So this J 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14. Okay. Now right just you consider them as a 10 11 12 13 14. Okay. Uh now
like this dot dot dot wait uh dot dot dot. Okay. Now try to answer.
Now here what are this index number? Every character in the string object contains what index number. I don't want
just to know where I just want to know whether it is available or not. If it is available I want to find where is it
available. For that we have another method called s1 dot index of the method
name index of I want to find the index of s character single quote h. I want to
find the character of a let's say a a character index. I want to find and tell me what the a index a character index
sir there are so many a are there sir which a I have to return index of method returns first occurrence
index of method returns first occurrence so what is returning one so uh if you
want to find a available or not what method I have to use contains but
contains method takes contains method takes everything as a
string only you cannot pass character double code say uh now index of method take it as a character also take it as a
string you can pass as a character also you can pass as a string contains method say only available or not available but
indexer method says where it is available suppose now I am trying to search for um capital A and tell me
capital A is available or not available not available then contains method returns contains method returns what
False contains method returns false. Whereas index of method returns what?
Index method should return false equivalent number. Now what is that
equivalent number of the contains? False. Huh? Try try.
What is the equivalent value for false?
Zero. Huh? A zero and j will come away in j position a is there
minus one we will get before zero what is there zero onwards
any positive number character available now before zero means minus one minus one place character available or not
available not available minus one okay uh so finally tell me
what is the difference between contains method and index of method are both the same yes both are meant for both are
meant for searching. Both are meant for searching. But what is the difference between them? It returns true. Contains
method returns true. Index method returns number. Index number. So tell me
checking place. Can I say checking or searching? Okay.
Searching substring in this string. What is the method? Public return type is what? Boolean.
Method name contains of or what string is string or no it's a parameter is car
sequence that means you can also pass you can also pass a string buffer also
next
searching index of don't say searching it is retrieving
Retrieving the index of the substrate.
Searching and retrieving. Searching and retrieving the index of
substring. Uh tell me what is the method available? We have public.
What is the return type? In what the method name index of uh what is the
parameter available here? Car hair ch
charact character you can pass.
Next you can also give string. Yes. Okay. Next.
By default index of returns what? First occurrence. I don't want first occurrence. I want second occurrence or
third occurrence or fourth occurrence. Then you have to specify
you have to specify comma int from index. Let me see first from index or
okay index or method. How many overloaded forms are there? observe int character you can pass character as a
number or as a character both forms is allowed index of string index of int
comma from index okay correct now here I'm giving comma say
two I am giving what the meaning of two from the two onwards it is searching
from the two onwards it is searching uh now this is what two index is a two
index is a no uh Next index is what? Three. Three index is a yes. Then what
you'll get here? Three key. I don't want to s start searching from the zero index. If you don't specify the index
number, if you don't specify the index number, it will start searching from
zero index. I don't want from zero index. I want to search from uh my one
my one middle index onwards. Then what I have to give here uh the index number from where you want to search. From two
onwards I want to search. Okay. Uh, next. Now I want to search uh, say
here, can I search for string also here? Yes. Okay. Can I search for here the
string? Hurry. No. Here you'll get what? Minus one. Here character or I want to
search for Okay. Uh,
only one occurrency is there. Hurry. Okay. Let me write one more hurry
nar multiple hurries I'm write and now here I'm writing
double quotes hurry uh comma I have written here six or
seven whatever okay then which hurry will come second hurry index 15 will come previous index is what four okay
now the index is coming what 15 this is 10 11 12 13 14 What is this? 15. Okay,
hope you all understand index of method.
Index of string, comma, in from index
from the given index you can find. Okay fine. Uh so these are the methods available on index of so index of method
is a overloaded method. Search substring available or not? Then contains method
search substring and retrieve its index. Uh then you have to use index of index
of index of. Okay. Then we have one more index of
method is there that is
search and retrieve. Which index of
Last index of search and retrieve. Last index of
Last index of Last index of what the meaning of last index of
here I have multiple occurrences of A. A yay.
So many occurrences of I want this from last first occurrence. Last
occurrence means from last first occurrence I want. In that case I have
to call another method called
last index of system.out outer ln s1 dot
last index of single quote then there are how many s are there here 0 1 and
this last which will come let us what is coming 23 okay the 23 index come I want
double quotes hurry okay hurry first occurrency is four last
occurrences this age 22 two. Okay. Then 20 understand right. Next I
want last occurrence not last last after then what I have to
write single quote a comma uh some 20
means here 23 22 21 from here onwards
previous character that means what index will come this index will come what is that 16 okay uh next similarly I want
last index of hurry last index of hurry three from 20 before uh what you'll get
same number we'll get because only one occurrence is there
what you getting now 15 here 15 here also 15 so what is the difference between index of and last index of index
of will search for the given character and returns the index number first
occurrence from zero index beginning uh next last index of method search for the
given character or given substring from last index to begin and returns the first occurrence. Okay. So in what
situation I need to use this index of method. Okay. In what situation I have
to use this index of methods. If you wanted to find a character just to know
I want to find a character or string available or not then I have to use what method index or contains method. I want
to find in what position it is available. From that position I want to
retrieve from that position I want to retrieve. Where you have retrieve operation there I have to support as a
support method what I have to use index of. So in the next examples we are going to going to use index of method purpose.
At this minute just accept if you want to retrieve the index of the given character or a substring I have to use
index of method. Is it clear guys? Uh now let me try to understand next method. What is that? It is also kind of
searching only. Uh but checking I'm calling it a checking because it is not
searching actually verifying checking string starts with checking string
starts with uh what are the method name? Public boolean boolean starts with
boolean starts with what substring string. Next, I want to search the strings ends
with public boolean ends with
okay ends with. Yes. Uh, now try to answer. I'm giving you one file to you. I'm
giving one file to you asking tell me this file is a text file or not. How can
you tell? I'm giving you one file name asking is
it a text file? How can you tell? Extension. Where extension is available?
Last. Last means file name ends with extension. How can I write a program to
find a file type?
file name. I want you write a program to find the
file is text file or not. How can I write? File name dot which method I have to use
and with txt then it is a text file else it is not a text file. Okay. Now
if you remember in Java identifier cannot starts with the digit.
Identifier cannot starts with the digit. If it starts with the digit we will get error. Then how can I find a string
starts with a digit or not? Which method starts with? Okay. Read a
name name dot starts with double quotes.
Okay. uh for example I wanted to find the students starts with yes how many
students are there starts with yes then I want to increase the count otherwise I don't want to increase the count so I
want to find the students whose name starts with yes then how what method I have to use starts with so I have a
string I want to consider this string or ignore this string for that sometimes I
want to consider substring sometimes I want to consider starts with sometimes I
want to consider ends with. Uh if you want to consider starts with what method I have to use starts with. I want to
consider ends with I have to use what method ends with. Sometimes I want to consider contains or I mean substring
there anywhere either begin, middle, last anywhere. Then what method I have to use?
Contains method I have to use. Everyone understand? So three methods
are there. What are the three methods? Starts with, contains, starts with, ends
with, contains means anywhere. Starts with means only starts with, ends with means only ends with. Okay,
let me try a small program on this
system. S1 dot
starts with double quotes Java.
Double quotes Java. Now tell me is S1 starts with Java. Yes, it returns what?
True. Next I'm writing ends with Java. Huh?
What will you get? True or false or false? See here
next I want to search with ends with hurry
runa false true now I'm breaking ends with starts with
hurry right or wrong false
okay if you want to find string starts with ends with you have to use like this uh now tell me Starts with ends with
consider case will not consider casea consider case java false.
Okay with har returns what false. So tell me do
you have any method called starts with ignore case ends with ignore case? No. What method I have to use? Two lower
case two upper case then come down. Then tell me what are the practicals already? I gave you another example. All people
know how to read data from the file. File has multiple lines. I want you read
lines and store inside Java program. From the file, I want to read line of the text from the file and store in the
Java program. This file has totally 100 lines are there. I don't want to store
all 100 lines. I want to filter. Filter means what? Take only what necessary and
ignore unnecessary. uh I want to take the lines only that contains hurry. If
the line contains a hurry, I want to take otherwise I don't want
uh then what should I do now? Read line then the line I have to store I should
ignore depending on the data. Now which data hurry what method I have to use?
If line dot which method I have to use contains double quotes hurry inside the
line hurry may be available in lower case upper case mixed case then what should I do
I have to convert the entire line to upper case then compare or lower case
then compare understand hurry is I don't want hurry available
anywhere if this line starts with hurry then only consider otherwise don't consider
starts with contents place what I should use starts with uh I wanted to consider hurry only ends with then ends with so
in your project's development you are reading many of the times data from the file while reading data from the file
you have to apply filter filter is nothing but one condition that condition time you will use what contains method
or starts with method or ends with method these three methods are very important methods for the project
development Everyone understand right? Uh whatever the test cases I am telling
these test cases I will give you as a questions you try to develop by your own
at home. If you don't try to develop ultimately you are going to fail in a
company written test exam these questions will be given to you scenario based questions they will give the
scenario- based questions you have to try to develop by your own that practice is very important for you. You want to
become a developer. To become a developer, you have to try to develop programs. No sir, you only write, we
will watch or we will sleep and lifelong you will be watchman and sleeper only. You have to try some programs at home.
Okay. And while trying if you got any difficulty let me know. I'll help you. Okay. Fine. Now tell me finally what we
understand. I wanted to know string available or not contains starts with or
not. Starts with ends with or not. ends with available but where it is available
at the beginning or middle end where it is available then index of I want to find first occurrence from the zero then
index of I want to find the last occurrence from the end index then what method last index of so where this index
of method will be used index of method is used when we want to retrieve the data from the string dynamically
we want to retrieve the character or substring dynamically then we use index of okay Now let's try to understand the
next methods. 1 minute let me correct these numbers. 13
14 15 16.
Okay. So these all the methods for searching purpose. Okay. This is also searching. This is
also searching. All these methods are kind of searching only. Now the next set of methods we are learning retrieving
one character from the string. Already you know this method
uh now retrieving one character. I want retrieve one character. Tell me how to retrieve one character. Already you know
in the previous classes we already learned. Recolct retrieving one character. What the
method car s1 equal to double quotes. I'm writing Java programming language.
Okay, I have written something like this. Now I wanted to retrieve one
character. Uh so tell me what I system do.out.print len retrieve and store.
Retrieve and print. If you want retrieve and store what I should write care ch
equal to s1 dot car at method name is car. Uh index number of the string
starts starts with what? Zero S1 dot carrot of zero zero we are giving
to carrot method it will go to string object searching for zero index. How about the zero index character? Zero
zero 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 Okay. 10 dot dot
dot dot.
Okay. S1 dot character of zero. Zero is which character? J. Then what do you
write here? CH. What is printing? J is print. If you want retrieve one
character available in the string object, I have to use what method? Carrot method. You have to by heart and
remember uh I want that can I call directly this method? S1 dot carrot of I
am giving index number something called fourth. What is printed?
Four. Four. Four character is what? Space. Space printed. Okay. Uh next I am
giving here say minus one
uh okay sorry let me write 10 10 means what is printed a a printed right uh
next now I'm giving here minus one what is printed
minus one minus one if I give what is printed
minus one minus when index is there or not there is Is it right index or wrong index? You are trying to retrieve the
data from the wrong index. Come on. Index out of bounds exception. Is it
whose index? Array index. Which array? String. So what exception? String index out of
bounds. You are giving index of whom? String. So what output will come? String
index out of bounds exception. So what is the rule in calling carrot method? Carrot method is used for retrieving
character from zero to length length minus one.
What happen if you pass length? S1.length uh length accepted or not accepted? Not
accept you will get string index out of bounds exception. So what is the rule in calling carrot method? Carrot method is
used for retrieving the characters available in the given string each character separately.
Then what is the rule in calling carrot method? The index number should be from 0 to length minus one. Uh I don't want
one character. I want retrieve all characters. Then you should write what for loop. What? In i =0 i less than s1
dot length. S1 dot length less than or less than or equals to less than or not
less than or equals to less than i ++. And then system dot out dot let me write
print system.out print of uh what do you write now? S1 dot carrot of i. S1 dot
carrot of i. What is printed? Where is the error
extra bracket? Now look at there all characters are coming on Java programming element. All
characters are retrieved and print. So if you want to retrieve only one character randomly, use charact method
directly by passing index number. I want to retrieve all characters available in the string object. Then call charact
method inside the for loop starts with zero and less than s.length. What happen
if we call what happen if we call i less than or equals to s1.length? Tell me
we will get exceptional all characters and then exception
you call directly less than or equals to s.t No. I value zero. 0 0 less than 24. Yes.
1 less than 24. Yes. 24 less than or equals to 24. No. Sorry. 24 less than or
equals to 24. Yes. Is it 24 character available? No. Then we'll get exception.
What is the output? We are getting all characters Java programming language and
then following by what? Exception. Understand? Right. This is very important. compulsory asking entry
question this is okay be careful practice it properly uh now this is the
story about what method carrot I want retrieve one character and I want retrieve all characters individually so
what is the method retrieving one character for retrieving
one character what is the method public return type hair method name is what carrot of in
index I want to retrieve all characters. For retrieving all characters, each
character individually we have two options. Number one, for loop
with carrot or one more method is there. One more
method is there that is public stream. This is in stream. In stream method name
is what? C. So it is a Java latest version method. car method returns int
stream because stream API is not yet completed. you cannot understand at this stage even if you call int stream. Okay.
So I'll explain this later. So just remember this method when I'm dealing with stream API you have to understand
this point. So how many ways we can retrieve all characters by using for loop with carrot method call
and second one by using car method. Okay. Now next point I don't want to retrieve one character. I want to
retrieve substring. What is the meaning of substring? Sequence of characters I want to retrieve. Observe now what is
the method? We need to understand sequence of characters
here. Java is a substring.
Entire Java programming language is a one string. In that Java substring,
program is a one substring. Programming is another substring. Lang is a one
substring. language another substring uh gang is another substring. Okay. So any
sequence of characters randomly you consider that is considered as what substring if you want to retrieve
substring from the given string. What I have to use? I should use a method called what? S1 dot substring. There are
two methods are there. Subsequence method is there and what substring method is there. There are two things
methods are there. Subsequence method substring any one you can use. Generally we will use one substring method.
Substring asking give me the index position. I am giving index position as
five. Okay. I give five. Then I have to assign to either local variable string
substring or I can call it inside there s. Let me write in sop system.out.print
ln system.out.print ln. Uh look at here
what is the output we will get?
uh what is coming now from the index number what the index number five from
the index number five did you give any end index no when you don't give end
index it is considered till last so programming language complete string
iter Okay. Now for example if I specify end
index I want only program five 6 7 8 9
10 11 what I have to give here 11. Uh if I give 11 what is the output you will
get? Uh what is the output you get? Program
you will get now program but what is coming?
Program why M is missing?
Uh guess guess why M is missing? What is the 11th index character M? But M is not
included. M is excluded. What the meaning of excluded means? Oh begin
index is included, end index is excluded. That means what character it
will return up to end index minus one. If you want m also what I should give
here 12 compulsory asking entry question be careful. Okay. And even you can call
subsequence method same result subsequence uh what you'll get.
Okay. So now if you want to retrieve substring from the string what is the
method we have to use? Public what the return type string.
What the method name? Substring. Yes. Cap letter small letter in substring in
substring. Yes. A small letter. Generally method naming convention. First word first letter is small. Second
word first letter is capital. But here substring substring
they are considered as a one word. Substring is considered as a one word. substring
of what I should pass int begin or int start.
Okay. And we have one more overloaded form. What is that overload form?
public string substring of
substring of int start comma int end tell me end inclusive or exclusive
exclusive and third method is there what is that public it is not return type is
a string it return type is what sequence
sequence method name is subsequence s capital here
into start comma into n. Okay. Uh finally what happened? Sub
these methods are meant for retrieving substring from the given string. How many methods are there? Three methods.
Substring method, substring int start, int end method and subsequence method.
Okay. Now I have a question. All people think and tell me. Here I have called 5,
11. Between five comma level will get always
program will get always programmed. No.
Java is a programming language. I have added
some extra characters. Now 5 to 11 what you'll get? You'll get what? is a P.
Is a PR are you following? Is a P is a PR. We
are getting I want to program whereever program is there I don't know at the
beginning it is there at end it is there where it is there I don't want I want
program then in that case first of all I should find where program is available
uh that means what I write int index equal to what uh I want to find the
index where it is available what is the method index of double quotes dot
program semicolon. Okay. Then
you want to call which method? Substring method.
Uh substring method what I have to pass start. Comma. What I should pass? End.
Where it is started. That is the start. Index of method returns what? Start. I
want to find the end. int end equal to uh what I should write
last index of programmer last index of program also same index
number written because last index of doesn't return m index number it return p index
index of last index of both written the start point of the program only but
multiple occurrences here only one program is there index of written p last
index of also written what P index number not M index number don't confuse
end and what you should return M index number start you found P say suppose P index
number is what here 10 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 + 1 17 total what I have to generate 17 I have to generate I have to generate
17 uh tell me count how How many characters available in program? 1 2 3 4
5 6 7. What the starting index? 10. Number of characters available is what?
Seven. Uh that means if you want to find end index is this formula will work out.
Start plus double quotes. Which character you want to find?
Program dot length. Will it work or not?
The number of characters available in the program start is what 10 and number of characters available in the program
what seven you can write directly seven because you know how many characters available in program okay now let's see
now will you get program or
understand let us write here still I want to test Java is an
object oriented programming language still even though
it is moved inside long distance still index of method returns what correct
index number and substring method returns what program if you wanted to
retrieve a particular substring wherever it is there then in that case just
substring method sufficient or not sufficient not sufficient what I also required index of help method so what I
told index of is used for retrieving. Index of method is used for retrieving
the index of the substring or index of the character. Why I want index for
retrieving that string from the string object. Then what is the method I have to use? Substring method I have to use
index of with substring method. I have all people understand now. So here we
are trying to hard the index number. Here we are passing index number dynamically with the help of start. And
everyone understand why I'm writing seven here. I want to find the end index of the
program. To find the end index of the program, start plus number of characters available in this string will give you
end index.
Almost all people are in sleeping mode. Shall I stop the class
or remaining methods? Will you learn? Remaining methods. Shall I go next
chapter? Everyone is sleeping mode. unable to
come out of the sleeping mode in deep sleeping.
So remaining methods material I will share you and
videos I will share learn by your own already gave you know how to understand
okay I taught you how to understand uh remaining you try to learn
how one is you know only one person or two person is working remaining all are happily sleeping
even online students also there is no proper response only Two three people are talking
okay he is keep on looking at outside only I don't know but
right pip completely looking outside only who is coming who is going I don't any devil coming on good
he's not looking at board also even so most of you
manage Gupta that's what I'm saying Are you replying to my questions? Let's see whether you are replying or not.
If you are interested, I am also interested.
Singal chapter is such a boring chapter because 34 almost 35 methods are there,
right? Mesh Gupta search
Gupta
only you asked don't share videos one question also you didn't answer then what I why I should teach you want only
meant for listening now look forget about others because you only asked me I am only searching for
you okay fine sorry sir why sorry did I ask you say
sorry no right
look See if I suddenly saying that I'm stopping then it is my mistake it's crime. Okay
you only look only you are asking to continue. Why
should I continue? I don't understand. In offline only one girl and one boy is
answering. Offline students only two three people are replying. Remaining all
people are sleeping and some people are looking outside when 10:50 to go
outside. Okay. And some people are sitting like in a bedroom.
So it's a time based for you. For me, right? When you are not interested.
Yes or no? What do you say Manisha? Waiting for your reply.
Uh good. Yes. So when you are eagerly waiting for
close the batch I already gave you the information right I already gave you
information from where I'm collecting all these methods tell me is it my talent did I create this class no these
all methods are available here look uh string where I have to go Java 21 API
documentation or 22 API documentation Java 22 API documentation
Click on overview. Uh here search here for what class?
Stringle class. I practice and remember. So I'm able to
tell directly without looking. I'm not copying. Uh look at here. The string class represent character strings. All
string lit in Java program such as double quotes, ABC are implemented as instances of this class. Same statement.
What is a string literal? A string literally is an object which is created as a instance of string class hard any
JPEG whatever sun micros system told same thing I told strings are constants means what immutable right uh now go
down lot of explanation given available from which version 1.0 zero. Look at their constructors. These are the
constructors available. And these are the methods. Look at the carrot method. Car method. Next compare to compare
ignore case contains content equals content equals. And then next ends with
equals equals ignore case. Next one. Next one. Next one. Next one. Next one.
Index of index of index of index of index of index of uh is blank. E is
empty. Right. last index of last index of last index of last index of length. Uh look at that. Wow. So all methods are
whatever available here same methods I'm going to talk not starts with right uh
same method subsequence substring substring look at here two upper case two lower case
whatever methods available here same methods I'm teaching here I'm not teaching anything new okay why you
people are getting boring unnecessary by wasting your time correct everyone agreed
No, no, you you tell
you what to tell her.
I cannot give you jokes on string handling chapter.
How to entertain on jokes? string.
Now we are learning wonderfully carrot.
Is it a magic show to entertain you? Wow.
Carrot mother taking index number four. Yeah. Wow. Huh.
Look at here. S1. Oh, superh.
Here also we can write like this. Hacha. Wow. Oh, Har Krishna is not a Har
Krishna. Har Krishna is a Java Krishna. Okay. How many words are there in this
string? Oh, in double quotes I can write three words. Ah. Uhhuh. Okay. Uh, now
tell me I want what operation? Divide the three words into three words. This
is a one string. I want to divide the string into what? Three strings. Double
quotes Java, comma, double quotes, hurry, comma,
double quotes, Krishna. Oh like this also I can do now aa how
can I do that for other there is a one method what method yes one dot split
the name split split is meant for splitting you know m ka m ka kh
that m ka space you want to divide the string into
words by what space Then you have to give space controller
right take care of it.
What are you getting? String object. Stringer object string array object.
Uh if you want to print the characters in the string object what I write erase dot
to string of
it is available in java.ut package.
What is coming? Java Har Krishna. We got three words. No sir I don't want to print. I want to take each word
separately. Okay. Then in this case what I write string array
words equal to what I write s1 dot split of semicolon
uh here the system outprint ln uh what happen
here it returns the words available in a string as three words okay first word I
want what the index number of first zero second one then two it is what
array this is array array contain first string zero index second string one
index third string second what I write here I want retrieve first word words
data of of zero of one of two
Now what I got Java Hari Christian
where I will use split method sir. We have a file called CSV file you know
comma value separated a file dot CSV. Many times you will see
dot CSV dot CSV means comma value separated. This comma value separated
this file have so many names with the comma separated.
These all the names are belongs to what? Working employees. Okay. For example, I
am sending my employees to some other company as a uh outsourcing for
outsourcing purpose. I have a company has some 10 employees are there. these 10 among 10 employees five employees I'm
sending as a outsourcing then what who are the employees are coming into my company from this company to that
company one file I am sending as a input in that file all the names I have
mentioned with comma comma comma then that company should read the names and
display on the screen that these employees are today working for that what should I do I have to read
the entire file data display as it is with the comma separator. No, I have to
display by each name separately in one line. First employee, second employee, third employee, fourth employee. For
that I have to divide this entire line of the string available in the file by
comma. In that case, which method I have to use? Split method.
Understand? Split method is used for dividing the given string by given
delimiter. Delimiter is nothing but the separator. the by what by what character
you are separating that separator you are today sir I should separate the uh string by words what space if somebody
asked write a program to divide the given string into words means what space only now one space means one word second
after space second word after space third word so I have to use what space nor I want uh my own character okay then
what you write system out. Print arrays dot
erase dot two string of S1 dots of S1
dotsplit of double quotes. I am writing A. I want to divide the string by A.
Tell me how many tokens will come after splitting each word is technically called what? Token. How many tokens?
First A appeared previous characters are come as a one token. Then then next next
string you have to consider search for the next word. A a before one token. Again search for a before next token
like that. Count 1 2 3 4
J V H space H space H RA I space
Christian okay now I am writing like this I want to divide by J
how many tokens will come J how many one right wrong Answer two.
Y2.
Huh? Why two?
Before J there is no delimiter. Huh? When there is no delimiter before J, it
returns empty string. And I given a delimiter
for the given delimiter. Right? Left side there is no token. Right side there
is a token as the left side token empty string will be included. Remember that
one. If I give complete string Java
hurry now complete string I give then tell me
left side any token there no right side any token there no this delimiter is
become equal to the complete string then what it returns it returns empty car
there is no tokens left side token is not there right side token is not there so it returns what empty
understand so what the purpose of split method. Split method is used for dividing the string into tokens.
How many tokens you are dividing? It is depending on the given character. If the given character character is called
delimiter, if the given character delimiter doesn't have right side tokens, left doesn't have right side
tokens. Left side tokens are there. As a left side token, empty string will be included. Right side token is available.
Then it includes what? Other right side token as it is. Left
side token is there. Right side token is not there. Then what it will do? It includes nothing. Uh for example, I am
giving Krishna. And tell me when I give Krishna, Krishna is a delimiter. Now
before Krishna we have a token. Yes. After Krishna you have token? No. Then
empty string included or not included? Not included. Only Java hurry space. So these are the points you have to
remember for which method split method. This much is sufficient for
now what the method public the return type string array method name
is what split of what I should pass string
string and delimiter. This delimiter can be a character or can be a string also
can be a delimiter or string wish. Okay. Uh, next. I think I forgot the number
changing. 21 22. Huh? 22 23
24 25 26 27.
Uh, now tell me what are the methods we discussed. As many methods you remember, try to tell.
First one is empty. is blank.
Huh? E is empty. E is blank.
Length two string. First four methods. Next. Equals. First double equal
operator. Double equal operator. Equals method. Equals ignore case method.
Content equals. Next. Next.
Comparative. Comparative. Ignore case. Next. With this all comparison completed and
next contains starts with ends with next
index of last index of next
carrot retrieving after comparison finding retrieving carrot
substring subsequence and next split. Split is also kind of retrieving
retrieving by words. Okay. You have to buy out all the method names available in this chapter. Uh now I want to
convert string for converting string to whom? Car. What the method name? public
return type car method name to car.
Okay. Next I want to convert to byte array. Already we discussed this method in ibo stream chapter. Public byte
array. Method name is not to get two bite array get bytes.
Method name is gets. Okay. Let us try to see now.
S1 equal to double quotes ABC. I want to convert this string to car.
Car array equal car array CA
equal to whatever I should call S1 dot to car array
system.out.print printed and see
I'm getting ABC if you print car all characters are printed directly I don't want directly I
want as array arrays dot to string of
c okay look at there ABC each one coming as a separate character next I want to
convert two byte array then what method I should call byte array BA equal to S1
dot get bytes uh get bytes method returning arrays dot
two string of B it return by array contains characters and numbers
uh the characters are converted as it's as key numbers and display 97 98 90
clear conversion uh now I have a primitive data int i1 equal to
some value say 15. I want to convert this 15 to string. I have a primitive
long L1 equal to say my mobile number 9010454584
L okay I have some double D1
D1 equal to uh 10.5 I have one object example E1 equal to
new example of example class there new example of some value something okay
We have primitive values and we have object. Okay, I want to convert these
primitive values and objects to string. Then what I should do? I can convert
object to string by using two string method. How can I call E12 string? But I
want to convert integer to string. Can I call I1.2 stringer? Not possible.
Methods are not available in primitive variable. Then how to convert in a string class? We have a method called
static method. Value of. How many value of methods available? Value of boolean,
car, car, double, float, in, long, object. Okay. There are totally almost
10 value of method. 10 value of static methods are available for converting
primitive value to string. Which value you want to convert it as string? I1.
Which value you want to convert it as a string? L1. Which value you want to convert? D1. Which value you want to
convert? E1. So if you want to convert a primitive
value R as an object to the string, we have to call what method? Value R.
Totally there are two ways to convert primitive value to string. Number one.
Okay. Totally there are three ways are there to convert string. uh say primitive string PS
string primitive string semicolon how can I convert primitive string equal to
uh empty string plus I1
okay empty string plus I1 error coming
okay I can convert primitive string into string by using what empty string string
plus concatenation operator. Second way is P string
equal to integer class contains a method called value of int
what name value of sorry sir two string
integer two string integer.2 R2 string of I1 or I can call primitive string
equal to also I can call string dot value. I want to convert a primitive
value to string. How many ways we can convert? Three ways by using plus
operator by using integer dot to string. Wrapper class object dot to string plus
number three string dot value. In all these three ways the original approach
the actual approach is this. Even if we use a plus also internally it is calling
string dot value of one. Observe now let's see which one is calling who integer.2 two string of I1 F3 method
logic is open inside it is calling
okay get cash method is called olden days it is called two string method internally call integer now it is not
calling get cast method it is calling that
okay I told you in 22 version lot of changes has done sir take it right I How
many ways we can convert the string object? Three ways. By using concatenation operator plus by using
integer two string method. Number three by using string do value of let's see string dot value of what it is doing?
Oh sorry string dot value of method is calling what? Integer to string method. Okay. Okay. So it is the original
method. Okay. String do value of method implicitly calling integer do value of
method. Okay. Done. So finally what is the original way of executing conversion
wrapper class two string method is the original way. Okay and this is the alternative. Okay done. So totally three
ways we have and now if you want to convert longer then what method I have to call
P dot string equal to long string dot value of R. Even you can
use a double quotes or which method I have to call long dot two string. Implicitly it is calling what? Long dot
tworing method. Uh then next if you wanted to convert what you call double
then what method? String dot value of implicitly what it is calling double dot value. Double dot to string method it is
called. Okay. Next string dot value of E1. What what is it is calling
internally? It is not calling any wrapper class. It is calling object class. Who is the super class of all all
objects? Object object dot twing method it will call. Object dot two-string method it will call. Okay. So string
class primitive parameter value of method is called its own wrapper class
to string method. And when you call object parameter value of method, it is
calling object.2ring method. So this is the story about how to convert primitive
values to the string. Uh so how many conversions are there? two three conversions converting string to car
array convert string to byte array converting converting primitive
values or objects to string for that which method I have to call
value of method not to string method public
return type is what string method name is what value of what I
should pass Here it is a one parameter method. Overloaded parameter method.
Overloaded parameter method. So overloaded parameter method. Okay. So
this is the story about uh what the total operations we have learned. Number one
total number of operations what you learn. Number one finding. Number two
comparing. Number three of course it is also comparing. Uh searching or checking. searching and checking. And
next one retrieving and next convert retrieving is two things number of
retrieve uh one character retrieving all
characters. Uh retrieving substring let me remove this method. Uh substring
method is how many overload forms are there? Two overloads in start and in end. Okay. Then next retrieving
subsequence same as substring method only. There is no difference. Uh next retrieving words nothing but words
retrieving is nothing but what we call split screens. Okay. Uh now up to here
29 methods everyone should by heart practice and come tomorrow. So that
tomorrow we'll complete the remaining concatenating joining changing remaining methods we'll complete in tomorrow
class. Is it clear? And on these methods I will also share uh practical project
scenario questions. Which method is suitable for developing that code? You try. If you develop by your own then
programming idea you will get. If you don't develop those scenarios program idea you will not get in written test
exam you will fail. Okay. Thank you. That's all for today class. See you all tomorrow.
Yeah we can convert string to in by using par.
People who are sleeping up to now in the class, what do you do now? Will you go to room and sleep? No. Okay.
Now become very active, right? And then doing personal works. Only in the classroom you have deep sleeping time.
That's why never don't disturb the people in the class when they're sleeping. At least they should have good
health. Now will you please tell me the jury? How did he get remain injured access?
Thank you. That's our class completed. Goian will how did he get remaining?
Ask the same person.
Hey whoever share you jer the remaining jer says same may you get man
why you are specially asking me now
passing pass in pass long method will throw exception If other than digits are there
no double quotes one converted to one integer parse in converted to one. If
you give double quotes a throwing number format exception. So what you do now long parse long you have to call if it
is other than digits there it will throw exception catch number format exception and then print error message enter only
digits
why you're using underscore
sorry Why? Why you use underscore?
That is wrong coding standards. People will not school you. People will scroll me. Who teach you Java?
Follow coding standards. And then I

