ript


So we have completed string class methods. All all standard
methods we have completed. Uh what is the last method we have
discussed? Trim method. What the use of trim method? It is used for removing spaces in leading and trailing spaces
available in this current string. Okay. If I have spaces in the middle, I want
to remove middle spaces. Can I use a trim method? No. Trim method is used only for removing leading and trailing
spaces. How can I remove middle spaces? I have to use a replace method.
Okay. I have to use uh observe here
S3 equal sorry S1 equal to double quotes ABC
BBC CBC are taken here I have some spaces here I have some spaces
system outprint uh now
s_ub_2 equal to s1 dot trim icall Then it remove S1.tlength
S2.length. What the length of S1? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16. Uh after removing
how many spaces available here? Here three and here 2 5 16 - 3 11 11 should
come. All right. 16 and 11. I want remove the
spaces available in the middle also. Then you cannot use trim method. You
have to use replace method. What is that? S3 equal
to s1 dot what is the method? Replace of what you want. Replace space with what?
Empty string. Okay. Replace space with empty string. Then now the existing
middle space is also removed means more to decrease nine.
Okay 95. So this is the difference between trim and replace. Okay. These all the methods are available. Okay.
These are the standard methods. In latest version we have few methods. What is that? Uh tell me we have already
learned. Okay. First let me explain about text
block and then go for methods. In Java 14 version we got a new feature
called text block. What the meaning of text block.
Okay 1 minute before going text block I have one more method is there.
Okay, for trimming string only we have a new method called
stripper public.
We have one more method public return type is string method name is what? strip.
Okay. Uh now we have another method.
We have another method. Uh what is that? Trimming
leading leading uh leading spaces. Uh what are the leading spaces? Strip
leading. Okay. And next we have another method called strip
trailing spaces. The method name is strip trailing.
Okay. So now we have three strip methods. Trim method will remove all spaces begin and end. I don't want to
remove begin and end. I want remove only leading. Then you have to use strip leading and we have to use strip trail.
Let me show you these methods. These are the new methods available alternative to trim method. Same string S1 equal to
double quotes ABC BBC CBC. Okay, here I have two spaces and here I have three
spaces. Now s_ub_2 equal to sub1 dot what method I call stripper.
Okay, method name is what? Stripper. Stripper semicolon. Then system.out.print Print len s1.length
plus double quotes.
Okay. S1.length plus uh next s2 s2.length.
Same as the trim added. Remove the spaces. Now look at here. Here spaces
available. Uh let me take uh
okay uh here we have spaces here spaces are removed. What spaces removed? Leading and trailing spaces are removed.
So if you want the spaces next removed or not removed let me write here high.
Let me write here high. So that you can see any gap is there. After high we have gap. How many? 1 2 3 gap. Here there is
no gap. That means leading and trailing spaces are removed. Okay. If I call S3
equal to strip leading. Now let's see what uh spaces are removed. S3 high. S3
do.length. Now what is removed? Only leading means begin spaces are removed. Uh next end
spaces are still available. We have length is what? 14.
Okay. Next system.out dot out print S4 S4.length length. Now here I'm taking S4
equal to S1 dot strip
and now this time spaces are removed which side right side okay 30 and now my
question is what is the difference between strip and trim okay if the sun
micro system want okay from which version first of all from which version this method is available it is available
from 11 version from Java 11 version onwards is blank method strip both
methods are available from Java 11 version Russian. Okay. If some micros system decided to provide a new method
for leading and trailing spaces to remove they would have provided a method called trip uh trim leading trim
trailing can provided. Why strip method is given? Let me try to see
what is there stripping in
understood the method name is not trim let's say trim method available in Python
trim in Python error let's see the trim a string
and remove any wide space whether leading or trailing use the what method?
Strip method. So, Python doesn't have method called what? Trim. What is the method available? Strip.
Uh, so I told you already from Java 8 version onwards some micros systemystem
targeting Python language get all the Python features to Java. Java features
Python cannot copy. Of course, some of the features from Java copied and now they are copying. Okay, Python is saying
that I am simple. Okay, I am easy. Okay, I am not using the full syntax. Okay,
let me also started developing excluding the full syntax. Let me make Java also like a scripting language. So
that is where slowly from Java 8 onwards lot of features of Java are coming into Java as part of the trim strip method is
also available in Java. Okay. Strip in Java and also in JavaScript. Okay. Now
Java JavaScript both methods are contains what? String. Most of the students after fullstack full stack
fullstack fullstack is started all people are started learning Java JavaScript and also Python because back
end AWS to interact with we need Python knowledge. So that's why when people are learning JavaScript and Java, Python why
should I have unnecessary confusion? Let me also support the other other language supporting methods in Java. That is
where strip came into picture. Okay. Then are there any differences between strip and trim method? Are both doing
the same operation? No, there is a small difference. What the difference? Let's see here some article is there.
Difference between string trip and trim and strip methods in Java.
Observe here. Among
other changes, JDK11 introduce six new methods for java.lang dot string class.
Okay. Among other changes, JDK11 introduces six new methods for java.
Number one, repeat. Number two, lines. Number three, is blank. Number four,
strip leading, strip triling, strip in particular, strip looks very similar
to trim. As per this article, strip methods are designing to uh there is a
difference. What is the difference? The string dot strip strip strip leading striping methods
trim wide space as determined by character dot is wide space
offer either the front back or both front and back trilling. What is the point here? It will remove the string
that is determined by what is wide space.
If character class contain method is a white space returns to true then only
strip method will remove that space but method is always removed. Let me try to
understand with an example. Okay. Here I'm taking S1 equal to double quotes.
Remember I can insert empty string by using / zero.
This is a space now. And this is what / zero empty character I'm inserting ABC
semicolon. Okay. And here I'm giving space space
system.out.print leng uh here I'm writing s1 dot trim
assign to variable s2. Now I'm calling s1 dot totally how many
characters are there? S1 dot length and uh
S2 dot length.
This is empty. It's not a regular character empty. Let's see what happened.
1 2 3 4 5. Okay, first let me check. Is it considered as a character or not?
Okay. S1.length 1 comma 0 will come. What is coming? One means this is a
empty character. Empty character is also considered as a character. Then a BC
space. Then how many characters are there totally? Five and trim the
removing empty string also. Empty character also remove trim removing
empty character also. Now I'm calling S3 equal to S1 dot strip.
Okay. Then I'm printing S3. Uh trim has remove empty character and also has
remove what space. Okay. Now strip will remove empty character or not.
Remove or not remove? Not remove.
Is that clear? It is not removed. Uh so what is the point you understand?
Strip method will not remove empty character. Trim method will remove
empty character. If somebody asked what is the difference between trim and strip method. Strip method will remove only
white spaces. It will not remove empty character. If you call uh strip method
on empty character, it will not remove this. Okay, remove this all make only
spaces totally how many are there? Three. Control F11. Uh now strip method make it
zero and then trim method remove only space. Clear my point right. So that is
the difference between trim and strip. So if I ask a question you must be able to answer this.
Okay. And now let's try to go for next topic
text block. Now tell me a string s1 equal to by
default I can create string by using double quote. This double quote allow us to write only one line of text.
Right? Double quotes can allow us to write only one line of text. Uh now I
want to write multiple lines of text. To write multiple lines of text what I
should write double quotes one line. Then you should write what? Plus then second
line one then plus line two then plus line
three
line three. Okay like this we have to use plus operator.
We have to use plus operator and every line must start with a double quote and ends with what? Double code. This is up
to Java up to Java 13 version. Okay, up to Java
13 version. If you wanted to store a a text data, I have to use a double code.
A double code allows us to write only one line of text. If you want to place multiple lines, you have to write double
quotes plus double quotes plus double quotes plus. Now this double ports plus creating lot of problem when you are
writing a big paragraph. For example, I want to write string S3 equal to I want
to write one query you know query SQL query. Uh what do you write double
quotes select star from? Select start
from EMP where employee number equal to
1 and employee name employee name equal to HK uh force equal to force equal to
core Java like this a big query I wanted to write when you want write big query
almost you know if you go for this is a simple query actually if you want write join query how many join conditions 10
tables I wanted to join and write one query you know right cartisian product or something we call it as so 10 tables
I want to join and write then the query become almost 10 to 20 lines of the
query will come in a company when you join and if you start watching the real
projects you know there is a query with 100 lines also join query with 100 lines
also will be there then 100 lines of query can I write in one line no so what
I should do now I have to make with multiple lines. Then how to write string? S4 equal to select uh star plus
generally we will write every keyword in a we will write every keyword in one
separate line. Select star from emp where
where eno = 1 plus and and e name equal
to single quote hk uh plus uh double
quotes array. Previously I forgot to write and okay uh and course equal to
cj. So like this we will write uh query like this. Now tell me is it readable?
If I write query like this readable? No. Where to give space? Where not to give space? There is a confusion. And second
string S5 equal to if you join serlet in serlet you have to prepare HTML tags in
the Java program as out. Ln out. Out. Out. Out. If you want to prepare one
HTML page like forms, reports if you want to prepare you know lot of so many
outprint and statements you have to write it become very clumsy and moreover inside that you have to write what
angler bracket single quote double quote properties will be there. Now attribute properties will be there. So it become
very clumsy. For example I want to write HTML. Okay. And then now next I have write
what? By HTML. And here I should write plus semicolon. Next I want write body
header. All right. Header double quotes header. Okay. And next one what? By
header. Okay. Header by header. And next what
you write? Header. A title.
And next
title uh uh what do you call HK programming world
uh double quotes double quotes plus
okay uh next you should write what body
Here I miss uh body again what double quotes
body okay uh next by body
plus oh my god I'm spending lot of time for arranging plus+ right are you feeling that double quotes uh what do
you write here double quotes welcome Let's get programming works.
Okay. Uh next plus uh enjoy
learning programming. So something I have written message like this
for this small text file to write HTML page to write I have taken lot of time
for arranging that plus two double quotes double quotes in addition to my original characters I'm writing so many
extra extra content I am writing extra double quotes plus and all so is it readable typing is also difficult not
readable and in future if you want to modify also it is very difficult for. So
from Java 14 version onwards
from Java 14 version onwards we got
a new style of creating string lit. Okay that is
text block. Block means block. B block
sequence of statements. Now block means what? Sequence of statements. That sequence of statements we write open
brack and closed brack. But this is what block text block. Text means starts with
what? Double quotes. Ends with what? Double quotes. This double quotes. But
when I write double quotes, Eclipse is adding plus+. What is the syntax of this double code? You don't write double
quote. You write what? Triple code. Text block syntax is what? Triple code. And
look at there. Another triple code started between this triple code to triple code. I can write what? Multiple
lines. Okay. String. What do you write? It is S
five. Six equal to string. S6 equal to what do you write now?
Multiple lines between double quotes to double quotes. I can write multiple lines. So this is the text block. So
text block starts with what? Triple code. It syntax is triple code multiple
lines triple code. So this is the text block syntax. Uh now let me see
system.outl uh now I am printing
okay I am printing s1. Okay first let me print here s1. S1 printed as s1. No
problem. as is coming one line of text. Now I'm printing S2. S2 I printed line
one, line.
Understand the problem. I typed three lines but coming as what?
One line. Understand a problem? Next. Now I am printing yes three.
I want query in multiple lines but how many lines is coming? One line. Uh next
S4 okay S1 S3 one line S4 we have typed
multiple lines but coming multiple lines no S5 what happened everything coming in
one line so tell me if you want to get them in separate line what you have to do I should add
uh I should add slash uh now string s6 equal to
for your convenience I'm writing string s equal to observe here I'm
writing next line I want then what you write slash uh now title next line slash
uh next body next line body next line slash is it the slash
uh next slash next slash next slash
what is this okay I have to write not only double quote Plus I should also
extra write what slashn / n slashn okay now what output you get s6 I have to
print print s6 uh what is the output coming
let me write one snn here
Right.
Hey, where is my alignment
here? I type the string as what? Alignment. Huh?
Where is that alignment? OM for bringing alignment again I should write what
slash t / t / t /
t / t control f1
here I should not have slash uh here I need one more slashing one
more sling Okay. Uh here body to head I want one
line gap slash
where one line now gap can not coming. Try one more slash I try to
understand how many for making this alignment slash T I need one more SL
finally the HTML alignment we got so observe here how much you know extra
characters I'm writing finally is it readable or not readable or not readable It's clumsy.
That is where what we got text block. If I take I want to write
this HTML. I want first let me take SQL plus this one. Uh I want to write this
select query S8 equal to uh what? No
plus. What you write? Triple code.
And what? No multiple double quotes.
Okay. No multiple double quotes. What do you write here? Triple.
That's it. Now tell me no extra alignment, nothing.
Look at there. Any compile time error? No. Do I need to write any /n here? Any
/ t here? No. Let me print system.out.print ln.
This is SS7
multiple lines one line only have type so one line come next I'm typing
printing S8 control S7 look at there I'm getting as
it is or not do did I use any extra characters no so it is as it is printed
uh next now I'm trying to take this HTML string without double quotes, without
plus operator, nothing. I'm taking it as triple code. 1 2 3.
Uh, no double quotes. No plus,
no double quotes, no slasht, no slashing.
directly. You type
S9 and then system.out.print Print al
yes observe here I have written print len here I gave one enter key enter I given
is that enter also will come observe after sa I didn't write any one empty s
in the triple quote I gave one empty line let's see will come out coming on
understand my point this empty line is coming It's all because of what this empty whatever you type inside triple
code as it is will come uh let me write one more one more totally how many lines
gap 1 2 3 lines gap look at there coming up so whatever right and next observe
here here I gave two tab spaces right that's why output also we are getting
what two tab spaces okay in output also we got two tab spaces 1 two I don't want two tab spaces
one tab space sufficient for me now look at that one tab space is
decreased or not and next here I gave one line gap here also I'm getting output also what one line gap everyone
understand so tell me now onwards how many ways we can create from java 14 onwards how many ways we can create
string lit two ways by using double code by using triple code double code accepts
only one line of text. If you want to write multiple lines of text, you have to write again and again double quote
and again and again you have to add what plus and next. If you want to go next to the next line, you have to write slash
end. But by using triple code Java 14 version text block, you don't need to write anything extra. Now I have a
question. Let's try all people are understood in advance. Now onwards
whenever you are preparing the query in JDBC don't use double quotes use what
triple quote and habituate writing query like this even you are writing select start from
emple query also don't write don't write
select start from emp like this if you write like this you are repeat
understand you will be a petit so you are write select start from em and next
star is also not recommended. You should not write star. You should write the column names what you want to query from
the table. Why? Tell me in your program after querying the data you have to get
the data from the result set. Have you completed at least that program? Reading data from result set. You have to call
RS.get zero, RS.get off1, RS.get off two. If you write star from EMP, the
result set columns are coded in the order available in the database.
For example, if I remove one column in the database table when you run the
query, the removed column will come up will not come will not come. And in the in the or I change the column order in
the database table. Okay. Then what happen in your Java program getter methods will fail or not.
So that's why you should not write star. If I write star, you'll face the problem. You decide in which order you
want to read. Employee number, employee name, uh salary, department. This is the
order I want to read the data. So select envo e name salary department from
employee table where employee number and employee name and course. So if you write like clear what do you call a
column names uh when the one of the column is removed immediately we'll get exception we no need go to up to get
method and next in what order the columns are changed in the table our application is never get affected we are
independent of the database table modification so it is the important
whenever you are writing queries in the interview don't write in one line write like this separate line so that
interviewer feels so much impressed Next, are you writing here singly quoted? Double quote.
Can you write double quote? No, single quote only allowed in the database and right. Uh okay. So these are the points
you have to remember. Uh next in advance of a surate whenever you are planning to prepare one query what you do sorry
whenever you want to prepare one HTML out. Lent don't write multiple out. That
jam is over. That is old style. Uh now I think your faculties are using minimum
Java 11 version. If they're using Java 11 version, you cannot use text block. If you want to use text block minimum
version should be Java 17 version. Text block is much minimum Java 17 version.
17 sir you told Java 14 it released now Java 14 it is released as a
as a the name is I forgot.
preview feature as a preview feature. Preview means testing. It's not
permanent. Okay. In Java 16 version, I guess it made it as a permanent. I know
where I can see the features, sir. Look at here. You have to go to JDK Open JDK.
Open JDK.org. Open JDK.org. If you scroll down, you'll find here all
the version numbers. Which version you want to learn and that version. Okay. Now, click on this JDK 22 JDK.
All versions individually will show you. Click on 14. Uh here if you scroll down,
all features will be shown to you.
Text block second preview. Okay, this is Java 12 hours I think
first preview 13 text blocks.
Okay, Java 12 version actually in Java 12 version we got text blocks as a raw
strings. The first target they they try to introduce in Java 12 version as what?
Raw strings. Look at that. Raw strings. What is this version number?
JDK 12 version. This was intended to be preview language feature in Java 12
version and it was withdrawn. But it is withdrawn and didn't appear in
JDK 12. It was uh suppressed by text blocks. Jeep uh 355 in which version?
JDK 30. Okay, let me change it to version number JDK 13.
Okay, in JDK 13 it is given as what? Main version of preview version. It's a
preview. JDK 13 it is given as what? Preview feature. Okay. Now raings first
preview and now click on second preview. Which version? Java 14 version. In Java
14 version it is a preview version still it is a used as a testing only. Then go
to next text blocks here. This is old 13 version. This is 14 and this is 15. In
Java 15 version it is made as a permanent.
It is delivered closed and delivered. Okay. Add text blocks to the Java
language. A text block is a multi-line string literal that avoids the need for
most escape sequences automatically forms formats the string in a predictable way and gives the deliver uh
gives the developer control over the format when desired. History text blocks
were proposed by Jeep 355 in early 2019 as a follow on to exploration begun in J
325 raw string literal which was initially targeted to JDK 12 but
eventually withdrawn and didn't appear in this release. J 355 was targeted to JDK 13 in June 2019 as a preview
feature. Feedback and JDK 13 suggested that text log should be previewed again in JDK 14. feedback who is giving
feedback the Java developers who is using who is testing JDK 13 uh they told
that still we need some more time to test okay then JDK 14 also they made it as what preview future with the addition
of two new escape sequences what the two new escape sequences
/ is the one new escape sequence second first one is what line terminator
uh first The line terminator escape sequence explicitly suppress the
insertion of a new line character. For example, it is a common practice to split very long string lit into
concatenation of similar substrings and then hardwrap the result string expression onto multiple lines. For
example, string lit if you take like this with a slash line terminator escape sequence, this could be expressed as
like this. Okay, that means they are very good.
Okay, in this page only all the explanation is the same page not new page and here new escape sequence
character you have to add this / slash every time. Okay. Now initial version JDK 13 like
that if when they are in preview you have to add extra like this that is eliminated. And next
for the simple reason that character literal and traditional string literal doesn't allow embedded lines escape
sequence is only applicable to text block. Second the new slashes. Do you remember I already told you slashes? Uh
the new slashes escape sequence simply translates to the single space one
space. Okay, like this you want I don't you don't want uh you want to provide one space here you can use what slashes
so that I can see properly the slashes escape sequence can be used in text blocks traditional string literal and
character literal okay concatenation of the text blocks okay there is a lot of explanation is given here you can go
through this article okay so if you have patency whatever the how much knowledge is required that much I shared now Java
15 in which version it is made it as a permanent Java 15 version it is made it as a
permanent. If you want to use a text blocks minimum which version you have to use
Java 15 you have to use Java 13 is released. Java 13 it is a preview. Java
14 also preview Java 15 it is permanent. Uh then is Java 15 long-term support
version? No, it is a short-term. That means what is the long-term support? Java 8, Java 11 and next Java 17. If
your company is using your advanced faculty is using Java 17 then you have to use what you can use text blocks. If
your faculty is using Java 8 version in Eclipse while developing the code you in
your practice time don't use Java 8 minimum you have to use what Java 17 up
to Java 17 available all methods from the API you have to learn. So companies are upgraded to Java 17. Some companies
more advanced upgrading to Java 21 also. Okay fine. Uh now come back. So what is
the story? I am I'm sharing this document.
Okay. Is everyone clear with this topic? Which version is Java 13
and 14 version? Review
and Java 15 onwards.
okay uh one question I'm writing like this string s equal to
I have written triple code inside triple code can I use single
No error
inside. Can I use double quotes?
Inside triple code I can use single code. No problem. Inside triple quotes I
am using what? Double code. Hello. No error. Observe. Triple code start.
Compiler searching for again what? triple code between any anything you
write it is accepted. Now if you write system outprint length
S10 S1 uh what we did single code and double uh
including tab space because I gave tab here now including the tab it will print
next inside triple code can arrive again triple
Yes 12 triple code
triple code can I write no okay it become
begin and become what end and this will become ide so compiler throwing error so
we cannot write triple quote in triple quote
everyone understand Next can I write like this?
String S3 equal to
triple quote in the same line triple quote end
hello triple code is meant for multiple lines not for one line. Uh now
tell me how can tell to triple code that it is a multiple line
new line character line terminator. Can I write slash?
No. Slash is escape sequence character representing what? New line
slash also not. Okay. The only option is you must use enter
key line terminator. You have to use okay you have to use line terminator
then only you can use are you guys understand right so this is
the story about line terminator and if you read this article you will get some more lot of information in your free
time try to read it what are the non goals motivation what is motivated them
to support uh escape sequence characters in Java embedded a snippet of HTML XML
SQL JSON in a string lit with a double code usually requires significant editing
with escape and concatenation before the code containing the snippet with a compile the snippet of is often
difficult to read and uh routers to maintain something. So now lot of discussion HTML like this we write and
next two dimension block we can write like this. So there is a lot of examples, explanation, rules and
guidelines. Lot of points are given. So you have to spend the time for reading each and every point. You want to pass
interview. So you have to learn. I don't need to pass any interview. I learn how much required for you to learn.
Understand? So you should have more knowledge than me. Brother
I started then I shown the path. In that path you have to start walk. I know sir
you only hold my hand together let us go till end and finally who will get the job I will get the job even into your
company also you need my presence you cannot work alone there so read this
article spend the time because text blocks is very very important you can expect many questions from the text
blocks so if you read it once your mind will get more knowledge okay done now
based on this tech which from which version onwards we have this method methods. It is a text block from Java 15
version. In which version actually this method these text blocks are targeted? 12 version 12
as a with the name rastering they introduced and taken back withdrawn 13 14 15 that means next versions what
features we are going to introduce based on that previous version some methods will be will be provided. Okay. Uh now
in a Java 11 version okay what are the new methods are given in a different
versions let us try to understand string methods
okay now observe string class what are the new methods are provided I'm creating string s1 equal to double quote
sum a bc I have written now s1 dot
S1 dot observe what are the methods available in string class carrot method
cars car method available from which version side observe you can see the
number Java 9 version it is a new method all the new methods I am writing here
it is available from nine version S1 dot uh next code point
available from five version. Five version methods take minimum eight version onwards we want uh
code point at five code code all these are related to that comparative contents
content equals this is available from this is available from five this is available from four uh describable
constable it is available from 12 okay uh now this is available from 12 okay
next s1 dot uh next
ends with equals equals ignore case formated formatted method available from
which version 15
where is 15 here? Oh, here there okay formated method available from 15.
Okay. Uh something called double quotes. Next S1 dot
Get byes, get bytes, get bytes, all these are get bytes, get bytes only. Uh, get cars, get cars
available from no version number. No version means it is available from begin version. Uh, next get class hash code
indent. Uh, indent method is available from 12. So we want this indent four
available from 12 and next s1 dot
uh index of index of index of index of index of what is this intern method I
have to explain it's a old version only is blend available from 11
I already discussed but I wanted to write here s1 dot uh next
is empty. Last index of last index of length lines available from
11 version lines available from 11 s1 dot
next method lines matches matches method available
from which version 1.4 and so forth. Leave it. Notify. Notify all. This matches and contains both are same.
What the difference between matches and contains? Contains method will consider the text. For example, if you write
contains of double quotes ABC, it will search for what? ABC. If you write matches of double quotes ABC,
it search for ABC. If I write square bracket ABC, it search for what?
A R or B or C any of the three three characters available it returns what
true so if you want to search for regular string matching character then use a matches I want don't want to use
regular scene matching then you have to use what contains so you have to use either that or this for example uh for
example I wanted to verify the string contains uh at least one digit I want to
verify this string this line contains at least one digit I want to consider then I should use contains method and matches
method matches bracket 0 to 9. Okay, that way if the string contain at least
one special character I want to consider then which method I have to use matches. So contains matches two methods remember
that I forgot notify notify all of code not required region matches. Okay, these
are related to matches only. Okay, region matches region matches uh repeat
this available from which version? 11. So now repeat method how many times you want repeat three times which version 11
okay next s1 dot uh next method are people understand how I'm collecting the
new version methods from the API documentation which version we are using 22 up to 22 what are the methods
available we are just collecting all the methods and we are learning important methods and next repeat after replace
all uh next resolve uh resolve constable description lookup
lookup uh take light this available from 12 version let it be there no problem next I'm writing null semicolon this
available from 12 these two are related to some constable description related uh
the topic not required next
S1 dot uh next length lines completed notify region
replace uh next split method already we learn split with delimiter this is a new
method available from 21 okay split with delimiters
21. So what is the difference between split and split the delimiters? Split method
in the array is it given uh the space a for example I taken delimiter as a. So
then what happened? A before available characters a after available characters given delimiter is given or not given
not given. I want delimiter also as a token. I want delimiter also as a token.
Then we have to use what? Split with delimiters method. Okay. S1 dot and next
last we came almost to end
starts with starts with already stripper. S1 dot stripper
indent S1 dot strip
leading S1 dot strip
in which version this method available 11
this method is available from Seven.
It is available from 15.
Okay. S1 dot.
Uh next substring uh sub subsequence method it is
available from subsequence method is not that much so
important maybe it is available from pi version
for okay Substring two car two lower case two upper case two string two upper case
transform. It is available from 12 version.
Uh next
and we have method called translate escapes.
These are the escape sequence characters supported by our Java. You know right
this is / line terminated contains this code. Okay. Returns which version is available from 50.
Okay. S1 dot uh value of already we know another
method is what? join just now we completed uh
translate remove wait case insensitive copy of copy of method
is a old method and next format it is available from maybe 1.5 leave it not
required format method is like a print method remember print method
You want format a string and you want to store then you have to use what method? Format. You want format string and
print. Then what method are used? Print f. Print f method is meant for
formatting string and printing. And whereas format method is used for formatting string and storing. So that
is the difference. Both functionality is same. Okay. Next join remaining all value. That's it. So these are the new
methods available in different versions. Let us organize them in proper way. N
version. Any 10 version? No. 11 version methods.
This is 21 bring it last.
Okay. Hair method and ease blank already 11 method we discussed lines repeat
strip leading striping completed indent and next describe constable and these
two methods take light is not required. Next transform it is also not required.
And next formatted required take light. And next strip
indentation also we not required. Uh remaining all methods not required take.
So we have to learn these method. These are extra methods given. So if you are interested learn by your own. Uh these
are important methods you have to know. Already I completed these two. Lines method is very important and cash method
is also important. is blank method already completed. Uh now let me try to explain you here. You can't understand
this top what I am explaining now but try S1 string S1 equal to double quotes.
I'm writing here uh Java programming language.
Okay. Uh then I want read each character separately. I have two ways. Number one
I want read every character. Then one way is what? Carrot method by passing index number zero and read all values.
Second way is what? Use for loop and read from Java. Which version? 9 version
onwards. Java 9 version onwards. We have another approach. What is that? Call
S2.c. This cash method returns. What the return type of this cast method?
The return type of cash method is int stream. What is that? Int stream. Okay.
Int stream. From the stream if you want read data you need
from the stream. If you want read data you need to use one method called car
dot car dot for each method. What are the method name? For each in the collection
chapter, I'll explain. As a program, I'm writing for each method. To the for each method, I have to write lambda
expression syntax. Uh tell me for each method will go to this stream. Stream is
nothing but array. It will take first character and give us as argument. First
character is giving as a argument. Arrow arrow lambda expression operate like a
plus. First operent is what the argument parameter. Second argument is logic
arrow. What you want to do with the data? I want to print ch.
Okay. Lambda expression a plus b. It's like a a plus b. First operent is a second operent is what? Logic. What for
each method will do? For each method takes the first character available in this stream and give it as a argument.
Logic executed. Loop again iterated. Second character taking reading and
printing in place of Java programming language I'm writing ABC characters s
what is printed 97 98 99 why because the stream is character streamer in streamer
in stream then it is our responsibility to convert it to character so I'm writing here car
ABC so I want ABC in one line okay remove this ln then you'll get as
so if you want to read each character available in this string. What I should use car method? What is the cast method?
How to call? Car method call and assign to what? Int stream. How to read values from the stream? By using for each
method. For each method, what it is doing? It will go to the stream. Read the first character. Pass it as a
argument to the lambda expression. What is this? It is a lambda expression. Lambda expression as what is the what is
the syntax? Lambda expression syntax is oper one operend one arrow operent one
arrow operend two uh operent one operent two so first operent is parameter second
operent is logic okay first operent is a parameter second operent is logic after
taking first operent value on this operent one what you want to do I want to print so print if you want to some
other operation you can do so this is Java 9 version Next I am taking Java 11
version of yeah Java 11 version lines method. I am taking Java lines meth Java
11 version lines method and now Java 11 version. This is
cars and this is lines. Now tell me this lines method is useful in what
situation? This lines method is useful in what
situation? The name itself is telling lines when you when your string is contain multiple lines and I want read
each line separately. Uh now tell me I am taking string S3 equal to double
quotes ABC. How many lines are there? Three lines.
Let's see is slash considered as a line or not? Why why error come?
Okay. uh now I'm calling here S3 dot lines in Eclipse whenever you want to
call the method call directly without assigning to a variable later if you
want to assign to a variable control one what the shortcut control one assign it
will assign automatic so tell me what is the return type of the lines method stream of string uh look at that car
method return type is also stream but what stream in stream here also lines Method return type is what? String. Now
tell me I want to read data from the stream. What the statement I have to write? Lines dot come on. For each lines
dot for each of uh first for each method will go to lines stream. It will take
what? First line. Uh take first line. First parameter is line. Second
parameter is what? Logic. What logic you write? I just want to print system.out.print Print lance line print
that line here I'm writing one s ls uh now tell me here what is coming up
error
tell me lines are coming or if I remove slash n how many lines are
there only one line that one line it will read a b c b c cbc okay let me Take
S4 and here I'm writing slash N / N and
then lines one this is lines two lines one dot for
each lines one lines two dot for each everyone comfortable and tell me from
Java from Java 15 version onwards can I use
multi-line string Huh? Uh here I'm writing
Java programming language
by Hari Krishna Nareshai
Technologies. Okay. Now this is the text I have written. Now I want to read all these
lines of the text from where yes five then I'm writing lines three dot for
each method line system.out out print and line observe now all the lines are
coming or not Java programming language by harrishna techn
remember I stream chapter in ibo stream chapter we are reading lines of text from where file okay from the file if
you want read lines of the text first we read from the file lines of text into string object from the string object
each line if you want read separately you can use what line so like this you can write uh can I write instead of
printing Can I write some uh uh business logic here? String S5 S6 equal to
I wanted to print I want to read only the lines.
Uh
I'm writing like this ABC space BBC 1.
Okay. and uh CBC to
BBC and next I'm writing
one XY Z PQr some three lines I have written okay
lines four lines method lines four dot I don't want every line to print
I don't want every line to print. Okay, I want to print the line only that
contains only the line if it contains if contains
uh digit. If contains a digit, I want it. What method I have to call?
If line dot what method contains
You are writing multiple lines. Now when I writing multiple lines I have to take lambda expression logic inside body.
If you write multiple lines you have to write lambda expression inside body.
If only one line body not required.
Uh now lines dot what method I have to call contains.
Contains of what? Any
uh then what method I have to use? Contains matches are matches.
matches. Now, what do you write? square bracket double quotes
square bracket 0 to 9 and then print a line
All
right. It's not coming.
Pulse. Pulse. Pulse.
when replace method accepting Y matches method not.
Understand? Replace method accept regular expression. But why matches me not
Okay. Maybe matches method is working with complete string. Maybe one minute.
Okay, I'll work out it. Okay, let's not waste time. Why it's not working? I'll check and let
now in place of this matches I'm taking contains.
Contains what? One. If one there I want a print
else I don't I don't want okay now all three printed I don't want
to print uh the starts with I want to print the line
starts with uh then if the line starts with one I want then what method I have to use starts with so after taking the
line you can do whatever the verification you want so what I coming. Is there any line starts with? No. This
line starts with one but it is what tab
here you give tab space. Now this double quote starting onwards it is considered
the data. So you have to take what like this. Okay. Now starts with one. Catch
my point. Double quotes after one space you type also that is also considered as what? Spacer. Uh next. Now I want ends
with then I want to consider then what you write line dot ends with. So if you
remember methods you can write the code properly on strings. So this is the story about the new important methods.
What is that? First one is car method. Second one is lines method and is blank
already discussed. What the meaning of repeated method? I want to create a string. string s 7
equal to uh I want repeat method is a static method string dot let's say
repeat method static non-static
yes sixth dot repeat returns a string whose value is the
concatenation of this string repeated count times okay it is also doing what operation counting I mean concatenation
operation so Repeat S6 already contains what? Let me take another string in stop
disturbing it. S1 equal to double quotes ABC. Now I wanted to concat this ABC
with I want to concat this ABC repeated repeated repeated three times.
Understand? Then tell me system.out.r of S7 if you write what you will get ABC
how many times repeated? three times.
I look at that ABC ABC three times repeated and stored in SF. So if you
want conc
required use it otherwise leave it here. So method is given. So just try to know that annex strip method strip leading
striping indent. And now look at here I am writing here s1 s uh string s8 equal
to s1 dot indent of indent of indent
means what alignment now space at the beginning if I give some space that is called what indent the indent I am
giving here say three characters. Let's see it work or not. System.out print and
S8. I am printing S1. S1 contain any space? No. S8 will have any space.
Control F1. To get there three spaces added or not. 1 2 3. Okay. Uh next
matches method with the bracket.
Not working now.
I use bracket. It is searching for bracket one.
Let me give only one
star dot outside.
Okay.
Okay, maybe directly not accepting. We have to go for match and all. Uh, now it
is working. Okay, I I cannot pass directly. I should
give regular expression string something like this. Okay, read yesterday I gave article. Huh? If you read article then
you get more knowledge than a regular expression. Okay. What the meaning of dot star is?
Okay. This is okay. I know uh this is / star dot dot star dot star. What the
meaning of it? Find out. Okay.
Now I'm giving two here. Okay. 1 2 1 we are. Okay.
Why this extra wide is not replace method is accepting
directly/d okay that's what my question
but why this fellow not accepting why this extra characters I should give any
character 0 to 1 any character 0 to one that extra syntax y
okay done come back let's not waste time now what that so intent indent method is used for adding space for example I have
s6 here with spaces or without spaces without spaces string s9 equal to what
you write s1 s6 dot indent of I'm giving four spaces okay system dot outprint
length s9 line then it will be printed with four spaces
here. Okay. All lines are added with four space. So indent method is useful
while working with no while working with
if you want to give just space to one string here I can give space it's not a big deal but if you want to give space
for each line then it's a difficulty so that's why what method I can use indent
method I can use okay now fine these are the methods you got to remember in which version those methods are given you
should understand so these are all the methods given in which version 11. So practice these methods and try to
remember. So enter ask a question. Do you know what are the new methods available in
Java 11, Java 12 version? New methods are given. So this describe constable
all these are not required. So if you just explore if you want.
Okay. So these methods are important methods. I completed it. And now all people practice these examples and
thoroughly understand it. That's all for string handling chapter. Need more half
an hour to complete one small topic. What is that?
String buffer and string builder class. One small topic is there that we'll see in tomorrow class. So today hope all
people understand string operation strip leading method and the text blocks related content why we came here and
then uh string methods Java new methods. It's available from 8 to 22 version. In
a 22 version any new topic is new method is given. No only in 21 version new
method is given split with the delimiter. Remaining all are same. Okay, that's all for string handling chapter
string class. We have two methods string uh string buffer and string builders.
Two methods two classes are available. Half an hour class is required. Tomorrow we will cover the topic. Okay. Right.
Today uh evening
6 6:30 like that or 8 by 8:00 check your Google classroom. Okay. If I give you
any video try to complete it by video. Let's not waste time. Okay. String
buffer string both are same. String buffer is just a mutable. Okay. So night I will decide to give video or
tomorrow to teach. Okay. If I give video try to complete night and come tomorrow. Tomorrow onwards as per our plan we have
to go for uh new features. Autoboxing, auto unboxing, generics and Java 8 new
features. Clear my point. So these three topics we have to complete tomorrow and day after tomorrow. Sunday also I will
take class. Clear my point? No holiday. Sunday as usual as per last week 8:00 a.m. onwards I will take 82 around 11:30
or 1 based on my my decision I'll continue okay now right by Sunday we have to complete and autoboxing auto
unboxing generics and Java 8 new feature lambda expression method reference topics we have to come thank you that's
all for today Nothing.
Perfect.

