ript


Good morning everyone. Yeah, last class I gave you
uh Java 5 new feature discussion autoboxing and auto unbox. Okay. And I shared a
topic called inner classes. Okay. Did I say yesterday you complete
all these four videos? Yesterday only you have to complete. No, I didn't say that complete yesterday
only. Some people are sending message to me asking how can we complete four topics
in one day sir it's your own time take your own time okay this is a topic is actually
outdated this inner classes topic is outdated just for your knowledge sake
old topic just for knowledge sake I shared clear my point what is inner class a class created inside another
class is called inner class what the use of inner class inner class is used for representing inner object object of an
outer object. Okay. For example, I have a class car. Car is having engine. I
have two options are there to create engine. Create separate class called class engine or create class engine.
Inside the class car. What is the right design outside inside? Inside you have to create. Whenever you create inside uh
tell me how many ways we can create inside a class. There are two types uh three types. Number one static. Number
two non-static. Number three method local and also we can create one more
called anonymous totally four ways we can create inner class static variable static inner class non-static variable
non-static inner class uh local variable local inner class parameter there the
parameter is nothing but anonymous inner class. So totally four types of inner classes are there. How to create them?
How to act? How to create the class? How to access the class? How whenever create class? We create object. How to create
object of the class inside inner class? What members we can create? What members we cannot create? How to access them?
Just for your knowledge sake. This this is outdated topic. Nowhere we are using
inner classes topic. Okay. Java 8 onwards inner classes topic usage is completely avoided. But just for
knowledge sake I shared because yesterday you are free actually we thought of having a class unable to take
the class. So I thought of maybe you can spend some time old projects whenever you are working on old projects inner
classes also used. So you should have little knowledge on the topic that's why I shared in your free time you complete
it. Sir I don't have any free time sir I'm studying previous old topics because generally student the psychology what
keep the things are pending old topics only we will study today topic we will study after 10 days that is our
psychology okay uh so if you are studying old topic keep this topic pending no need to worry about it and
I'm not removing from the Google classroom right this is a fixed Google classroom so don't get tension slowly in
your free time study okay now can I hope everyone uh studied did a auto boxing auto
unboxing. Okay. Today let us try to complete generics remaining topics.
Why?
Okay, inside this topic generics we are learning
creating a class with the parameter that accepts any type of object.
Okay, what are the topic? Generics. Generic. Generic means what? Not specific. Okay. Now for example, I'm
creating a class called example. In this example, I'm creating one method static
y m1 with a parameter int i. With the parameter int i. Uh tell me if I create
method with a parameter int i. What type of value is allowed to call? Example,
you can take it as a static method, non-static method. I'm taking non-static first. Example E1 equal to new example
E1 M1 I can pass five yes can I pass 5.0 zero. No compiler throw error. If you
want to pass double type value, I have two options. Option number one, overload
this method. If you want to pass a double also, I have to overload overload
uh double I or anything. Okay, no problem. S OP and I. Now tell me is this method compile or not? Yes. What is the
problem in existing approach? What is that? A method can take only one type of value, one
type of value as argument. Uh to pass
different type of values. Number one, we have to use method of
overloading or number two
method with super attack. What the meaning of ME super type
loose couplinger? It is a loose couple. Okay. Second option I'm taking class sample. Okay. In
place of example, let me take this name as a because many classes I
need to write ahead.
P uh now here again I'm writing y1 tell me
I want to take all types of objects different type of objects I want to take I mean different type of values int type
or double type or all different types of values I want to take then what I should write doubled
uh if I take double d what is that super type means highest range type a method
highest range or super type parameter. If I take M1 of D system outprint length
D uh listen B1 equal to new B. Okay,
let me write uh this points here.
This is option number one. method overload.
Okay, this is option number two. What the option number two with the
highest range data type as parameter. What the problem in highest range? What
is the problem in method of overloading? Multiple methods.
We must define multiple methods. Comma program become dynamic statica.
Every time when you want to change the value, every time when you want to change the type of value, I have to define one more method. Now program
becomes static.
Uh second approach with highest range data type as parameter I created a class B B dot I have written what M1 by
passing five. Uh tell me now is the data going as a five
Now think if I take M1 of W with the highest range
inside this method can I use D as a D?
I mean can I use five as F5? I am passing what value in can I use
five as F5 or we'll get 5.0 0 5.0
what are we what the output coming 5.0 Okay, I want int as a in.
I want int as a in. I don't want uh what is the problem here?
All lesser range values. LRV and understand lesser range values are
converted to highest range data type values.
Lesser range data type values. LRD means lesser range data type values
are converted to highest range data type values. We cannot use those values as
their type. That is a problem. Okay. Next class A3. I am taking here the
classes something like this. What is that? I have a Okay. I'm taking W M1.
Wide M1 with a string. If I take with the string, what object I can pass? A3.
A3 equal to new A3. Okay. A3 dot M1. Can
I pass double quote say string object? Yes, it accepts. No problem. System dot
out. And yes is passed. Control F1 that A is printed. Okay. Now, okay. Here I'm
taking one more value single quote and another value true. true accepted or not
accepted? Not accepted. Okay. Here system out. Lengn
uh A3.m1 of double quotes say string is accepted. Now I'm passing integer file.
Accepted or not accepted? Not accepted. Why? Because the method parameter is what? String. Then what the solution? I
have two solutions again. What the two solutions? Number one either overload or
take a strange data type. Let me overload. A4 okay m1 of string is and
I'm writing m1 of what integer I integer I integer I hope you remember integer is
a class uh right tell me now here compiler throwing error so I am
implementing method of overloading what is problem with method of overloading a4
yeah new a4 a4 m1 no error a4 m5 error
no error no error so Both are executed successfully value printed. But what is the problem? The problem is number of
methods are increasing. Number of methods are increasing. When number of methods are increased then what is the
problem? Program becomes static nature. If you want to pass double type value 5.0 accepted or not accepted, not
accepted. Again I have to define one more method. Then what is the solution? You have to choose the common type for
the common type for these two classes. We ought to take what the common type uh come on. What is the common type?
Yeah. What is the common type for string and integer? Who is the super class of both the classes? Object. Object is a
super class. So I'm taking object OBJ. Uh if you take object OBJ, any error, no
error. Uh come on. Any error? No error. No error. Uh tell me now. A5. Everyone
come on. Fast, fast, you respond. Okay. A5. A5 equal to what? Write new A5 and
then A5 dot M1 of double quotes say accepted yes a5
accepted yes a5 dot 10.5 accepted yes a5
dot uh true accepted yes a5 dot our own class new A1 accepted yes you can pass
any type of object because method parameter is what object but what is the
problem Here the problem here is I want to fix. Okay,
listen carefully. I created A5 A2 equal for A5 object.
For A5 object, I want accept. I want allow all types of
objects to pass. My requirement, my project requirement is for A5 object. I
want to I want to allow all type of objects. I want allow all type of objects to pass. But now A6 object A5 A6
equal to new A6 class changed not changed. Class is not changed from the
one class. Can I create multiple objects? Yes. Now I am creating second object for this
for this first object. For this first object
a file I want to allow all types of objects to pass. For this second object
for the second object I want to pass only integers.
For this third object, I want to pass only strings.
Okay. For this fourth object, for this fourth object, I want to pass only say
student objects. Is it possible or not possible?
A6, A7, A. Now you people think until what is the problem in this approach?
The problem
what the problem with overloading or
superype parameter. We cannot we cannot pass we cannot pass
object based. Okay. We cannot pass uh
specific or particular particular one type of objects as one
argument dynamically based on the current object.
Now what is the point? I want to create one method here. I want to create a class with one method with a parameter.
The same parameter sometimes I want what all type of object sometime want only
integers sometime want only strings sometime want only students.
Are you catching my point? So based on the scenario based on the object okay we
cannot pass particular one type of objects as argument dynamically based on
the current object to the same method with the same parameter parameter is
fixed I don't want to change parameter parameter is fixed but I want to change the objects at what time at the time of
uh at the time of method creation creation time or at the time of object creation time. Object creation time.
That means it means it means we want to decide we want to decide
the object type at the time of uh at the time of object creation. We
want to decide the method parameter.
The method parameter type. The method parameter type at the time of object
creation. At the time of a class object creation.
Okay. But not at the time of but not at the time of uh method
definition. Okay. Uh look at here. I want to create a class called a class called uh what is
this? So let me take B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B open bracket closed bracket everyone
should participate wide M1. If I write ym1 what happen? No parameter. It will
not accept any argument. But I want argument. Then we should write here say
int i. What arguments only accepted for b1, b2, b3, b4. Any number of objects
you create for this b class always it accepts only what? Same type. If I change it to double, what is accepted?
Only double. uh now all for all BA B1 B2 B3 B4 all B-class objects the parameter
is what fixed double if I write here string then what is accepted only string
if I write integer only what is accepted integer if I write student only what is accepted student if I write object all
types of objects are accepted uh no I don't want all type student and student integer integer that much only I want to
accept then how can we control passing the value. The single method definition
should accept different type of objects based on the object we created. Okay,
listen. At the time of object creation, BB B1 equal to new B what objects you
wanted to store. You tell to compiler. Tell to compiler. Okay. I want to store
only or I want to pass only integer. I want to pass only integer. I want to
pass only integer. Okay. Who we have to tell to whom now? Compiler. To tell to
compiler. After B you should write angular bracket with what name? Integer.
And here you write just empty angular bracket. Variable side you write angular bracket integer. Which type? And right
side after class name. No need to write. So tell me now if you write B1 M1. Now
M1 method parameter is what? Now whatever you write here are catching my point. Right? B integer B1 equal to now
I am creating one more object B B2 equal to everyone should tell now here I want
to pass only string uh only strings I want to pass then if you want to want to pass only strings what I should write
after B in angular bracket you should write what string string B2 equal to
okay uh next now I want to pass only I want to pass only student object okay
only student objects I want to pass what I should write here Student student B3
equal to then tell me what is the method parameter here? Student sir one second.
If you wanted to create a class object by specifying the objects you want to
pass then first of all that class must create to accept this integer. Now uh
earlier we have taken parameters to the method. Now you take parameter to whom
now class. After class name while creating class after class name here you write angular bracket uh here you are
writing parameter name I know that I will come here are you following my
point that I will come here write B of I what do you write here B of I and now
here generally we don't take I XY Z meaningless we have to take meaningful what you want to call integer integer is
a type string is a type student is a type So we will take here T. T stands
for what? Type. Same type. Whatever the type we passed here. Same type I want to apply here.
Same type I want to apply here. What also I should write here? T. Okay. Now
here why I'm getting compile time error control one student class is not there. Create the class called word student.
Now come back. So repeat once again. What is the important point you are trying to understand? Whenever you want
to create one class to a to create a method you want to create one class and
you want to create a method this method should accept the object of any type
then we have object as a parameter if you take object as a parameter it accept
all type of objects for every object of the Bclass but my requirement is B
object one B1 object B class B1 object want integer objects only want to accept
B-class B2 object only want to accept string objects B-class B3 object want accepts only student object like that I
want to decide the parameter type at runtime up to now what we learn decide the arguments type at runtime but I want
to decide parameter type also at runtime then we have to create a class with a
special syntax what the syntax is called generic what syntax is called generic parameter
ter class generic parameter class. So this angular bracket T is called what?
Generic parameter. Why generic? Because it is not a specific because it is not a specific. That's why it is called what?
Generic. Uh now let me take here the class name as example. Okay. Example of
T. Uh now in place of B I'm writing example. Copy paste. Uh again I'm
writing copy paste.
copy paste. Okay. And now this class is what? Example. This example class is what class? Generic parameter class. So
finally tell me what is a generic? It is a
it is a Java 5. Java 5 new feature. Why
generic? Why generic? It is used to
specify. Okay. It is given, it is uh it is provided or it is defined
or what I can say this feature
is meant for providing generic sorry it is used it is meant for
providing compile time
type safety Compile time, type safety. Compile time,
type safety. It means it is used for
providing type information
to compiler, type information to compiler. Up to now,
we didn't provide type proper information to compiler. We provide what
information here. Example, if I take object, did you provide any type information to compiler? No. Any type of
object is accepted. If you write here T, then when this T type is decided at the
time of object creation, what the type you told to compiler? Integer. What type
you told to compiler? String. What type you told to compiler? Student. Observe. What is method parameter?
What you have created here? T. But what is coming here? Integer. Why? Because B1
is of what type? Example of integer. B1 is what type? Example of integer. So
what is accepted here? Integer only accepted. I am trying to write string double quote say allowed not allowed. I
am trying to write new student of allowed or not allowed. So here and here
I got compile time error. So tell me I provided compile I I provide the type
information to compiler. This B1 object or let me take E1. This E1 object is
allowed must be allowed. For this E1 object only integer objects are allowed.
I provided type information to compiler. All people understand the meaning of type information provided to compiler.
Tell me for E2 object if I take here everyone tell me if I take here object
as a parameter are you providing type information to the compiler no what you did uh you return object when you write
object here below I am writing E2 E25
allowed or not yes uh double quotes you return allowed or not yes uh next new
student you are writing allowed or not yes did you provide any type information to compiler No, anything is allowed. But
now I am changing the parameter of M1 to what? T. The moment when I write T at
method creation time, no type. It is a generic parameter class and it is a
generic parameter method. Are you catching my point? It is a generic parameter method. Type is
decided at the method definition time. No, type is decided at what time? Method calling time. At method calling time,
which variable you have used here? E1. Okay, let me change to E2. E2, E2, E2.
Which variable I have used? E2. Observe. Now here M1 method compile.
First method call compile. No. Second method call compile. Yes. Third method call. No. Because type information you
provided string. Then this is wrong and this is wrong. Compiler accepts now only what type of object? String type object.
Everyone understand? Right. So now example now I'm writing third object E3. Which type of objects you want to
accept? Only student tell me. When I write E3 M1, what the parameter type?
Uh M1 type is what definition time generic. But calling time generic specific specific. Which type? Student.
Uh look at the here I write student. You have to write here E2 sorry E3 E3 dot
below. What the type is coming? What the type is coming ahead?
uh student only your allow to password student five I'm passing allowed not allowed not allowed if you write five
compiler throwing error next double quotes I'm writing here a string allowed not allowed I am passing here new
student of allow okay these two are not allowed so
everyone understand a generic concept generic concept is used for creating a
method with a dynamic parameter if you want to create a method with the dynamic
parameter means at the method definition time we don't want to specify parameter
type at a method calling time I want to specify parameter so repeating again
when we want to create a method
we don't want fix the method parameter Enter
at method definition time.
We want fix method parameter at method calling
time.
Then we must create this method with the generic
parameter as shown below.
Okay. Now uh here in the angular bracket t is called what? Generic parameter name. Here t is what? The same generic
parameter name we have used. Okay. Fine. System dot out.print ln. Here I'm
writing I do get class dot get name which you
type object pass double ports type value pass save it when you run this code uh
where is the error somewhere error is there
when I pass here which type of value we pass that type of value is printed. First we pass.
First we pass integer type value passed. Next string type value passed. Next
student type value passed.
Okay. Integer type value, string type value, student type value. So this is the story about generic type. So up to
now we created a methods with parameter type directly at the time of method
definition with the generic type we don't create we don't specify parameter
type at the time of method definition type at the time of calling type sir this parameter name can I use anything
your wish XY Z also you can use no problem whatever the name you have used here same name you have to use here
that's it so but generally the generic parameter name will one letter word will
be there. The most okay the commonly used
commonly used generic parameter names are
okay number one P number K sorry E
K V You
uh T stands for type. Okay. Parameter one.
This is I want a method with the two parameters. And then second parameter will be what?
It is also type only parameter. T stands for type.
Parameter one. It is also word type only. But when you want to create with two parameters, guess what is R?
R. R. Return type. Okay. When you want to use
return type, what generally we use? R. Uh E stands for element.
K stands for key. V stands for value. This terminology is collection
terminology. Okay. Now final question sir where generics concept you will use sir.
Basically generics
concept is used for creating
collection class. Okay. Used for creating collection
plots. Basically generics concept is used for creating
collections and tell me the collection object
different instances must store
different type of objects. For example, we have bag and tell me okay we have
box. Box is a collection. We have a box. For example, box. Box is
a collection. And tell me box one. In box one, you will store what
uh say box one in your house boxes are there. Now uh police.
Okay. Box one for police to store. Next box two.
Box two. In a house ma'am, ask your mother. Call to your mother and ask. Second box
three. Box three.
Aling al
this is I have a box with how many boxes are there? One box one instance box two
second instance box three tell me on box one there is a label on box one when you
are buying box you are buying specific to one particular thing to store no box.
Okay. I box is looking good. But after buying the box, once it come to the house, then you are adding a label. What
is the label? Huh? Police. Okay. One more box for what? Sugar.
One more box is what? Salt. Hey, many times in movies hero in when first time
preparing food. Remember first time preparing food she
add sugar salt sugar place salt salt play sugar and some comedy generated fun
generated there right next one more is there idli raa
bombay raa bombay and Ili both are looking same this my
lifetime confusion it is okay uh what is that raa idliar both are looking name.
Uh so which one is what? That's a confusion. For that what we required compulsory label and tell me this labels
a label on the box is nothing but generic
generic type argument. Are catching my point? So box whenever
you are buying box there is no label after buying box you are adding label one more example book what is a book
collection collection of your subject daily class you are collecting now tell me book one has a label what the label
math math okay math math to store uh
here what label on the book is the generic
parameter argument.
Generic type argument book one maths. Next book two uh what is the book two?
Science of social science to store. Uh next social to
store at least now are you able to connect us to the generic type.
So what is a generic? Generic is nothing but a type. A generic is nothing but a
type that we specify to the method at the time of calling. Okay. For example,
box is a collection. Book is a collection. Generary concept is given for what purpose? per collection to
store specific type of objects based on the instance. The collection object
the collection objects different instances must for different type of objects. Hence the collection class must
be created. The collection class must be created
with uh what type generic type.
Okay. So that at the time of object creation we can specify what type of value we can pass. So hope you all
understand generic type concept. Uh now let me take one last example for you to understand. Here I'm taking one
collection. For the collection we have a predefined class called array list.
Array list AL1 equal to new error list.
Error list AL1 equal to new error list. Observe automatically Eclipse is adding
generic type now new error list. Uh now tell me here I created collection
with generic or without generic. without generic.
Then what happened? What is its type? The ar then the argument type is
object means we can pass
all Java types. All types of values and objects. And now
tell me a1 dot there is a method called what? Add. What the parameter type? Add object. We can pass five. No problem.
Allowed. Uh next A1 dot add of what you pass double quote say string accepted.
Stringer accepted. And next al1 dot add of what you write
now some true accepted and next al1 dot new student it is also
accept okay this is collection one I'm creating
another collection array list of array list of now I'm writing integer
al2 equal to new array list of tell This is collection with generic or without
generic. Collection with generic. Uh now al dot add of observe what the parameter
now integer. All types of values are allowed or not allowed. Not allowed. Al2 dot add of only five allowed. If you try
to write true error. If you try to write string double quotes say error. If you
try to write uh new student error.
Okay. So why error? Because it is no generic type. So the collection instance this error list is allowed to store only
integer. So if you want to store in one instance of the collection you want to
store only one type of object. Same class other instance want to store other
type of object. In that case we are to create the class with what generic. Okay. Next one last question from here
tell me whenever you create this example class is with what generic method I'm
creating second method static wide m2 method okay tell me is m2 method take
this t as a parameter now no why because it is what method static
is a static method accept object argument as a argument no because static
method we Call with object or without object. Without object. Look at here. Look at here. How are you calling that
M1 M2 method? You are calling M1 method with E1. E1 type is what? Integer. That
integer is applied here. Static method you call by using what? Class name. Uh tell me now I want to call static method
by using class name. So how do I call example M2? When you call example M2 here, how
to specify the generic type? Not possible. That's why listen we have to
create static method generic type before return type here itself angular bracket
t other so now if you creating static method static method wanted to take uh
static method also want to take different type of values one method call one value second method call second
value based on my requirement then in that case you have to apply generic type where I can apply class generic can it
take No, I have to take what again generic we are apply here. Now this method is called what? Generic
static method. Okay, static generic method. For static generic method where you have to apply the type in the method
definition itself you have to apply system dot out.print and let me write same statement here.
Our t dot generic simple type value passed. Uh so if you want to create
static method as a generic type you have to use generic bracket angular m2 of
file then five is going as a integer object. Look at the what is coming integer type value.
And now tell me what is the generic type is applied to the static method based on the argument. What the argument you pass
then generic type is what? Integer. Here generic type is applied integer method parameter is integer. So that's it. So
this is the story basic idea on generate. So going on in the collection chapter we are going to going on in
collection chapter we are going to learn more points on generics. This is the basic and full idea about generic
concept. So finally three points you have to understand. Point number one if I create a method with specific
parameter type I can pass only that type of values. Second, if I create method
with object, I can pass all types of values. But my requirement is one
instance, one type of arguments I want to pass. Second instance of the same class should accept different type of
values. Then in that case what I should use? I should create the class with a generic type. Method with what? Generic
type. Then if I create method with the generic type T, what the type of the T? Type is not decided at the time of
class. and the method definition uh t type is decided at the time of class object creation and method calling type.
So generic concept is given in Java 5 version. For what purpose? For simplifying
uh for simplifying which code collection program.
Autoboxing auto unboxing for simplifying collection program. Generics is also
meant for simplifying collection program. So with the generics without generics how the code will be uh observe
now shall I write small code. Okay I want to show you generics
autoboxing auto unboxing without autoboxing auto unboxing. Now let me write uh that point also here. Basically
generics, autoboxing, auto unboxing and generics simplifies
our collection programming
and avoids class cast exception
and and instance of operator
usage and improves performance
and gives fast execution.
Okay, let me show you how generics simplifying collection programming and how it avoids class cast
exception. How can we avoid using instance of operator? One small question, one small program I will
write. I'm creating array list of with the generic without generic without
generic. AL3 equal to new error list. Last point
and now tell me no autoboxing no auto unboxing. This code is what code? Java
1.4 version 4. Okay. In Java 1.4 for version AL3 dot add of what I write new
new integer of five
new double of 54 new character of
single quote A and next new string of or directly double quotes
some B you This is the way we write collection. I want to retrieve after story. I want to
retrieve autoboxing. There are no autoboxing. Here no generics.
And here no autobox. Now then I want to retrieve. for retrieving if you write
object uh object OBJ semicolon OBJ equal to I
want to take first object integer what I write a L1 dot get of zero then uh let's
say I want to take this string which index number it is 0 1 2 3 third index
number so I am giving what here three uh then I wanted to use string as a string.
If you want to use a string as a string, I have write string. Yes. And here I should write S equal to can I write OBJ
directly? No. What I should do? I should type cast. Type cast to string. Then
system dot out. Len S1 dot uh two uppercase
S1 S dot sorry S dot to uppercase. Here let me write some my name. I'm writing.
Uh now tell me here auto unboxing
want boxing unboxing.
Uh here what is that autoboxing or no autoboxing? No auto unboxing. We are calling explicitly in learning. Then
system.out print I + something I have written. Uh observe now here no auto
unboxing. Next here may get
may get class cast exception. Wherever I am doing casting then there is a chance we'll get what class cast
exception. Why class cast exception? The object we are getting from obj may be
integer may not be integer. Currently we don't get exception. Everything will go smoothly. Somewhere errors are there.
I look at the classics.
What the index number here? 0 1 2 3
Th three correctly given 0 1
class. Huh?
Al3 okay okay I written Luh
now look at I'm getting 15 what is the value coming from get of 0 5 + 10 15 and
then all characters are coming in upper case now I want to get class cast exception
I'm changing the position of integer to here now tell me what is the get of zero
value double what is type casting double to integer not possible. I got class
cast exception. Okay. Next I am changing this hurry to here. Control F11. Now the
position change. I got class. So there is a chance we will get class cast
exception because this this collection contain heterogeneous objects. The
collection contains heterogeneous. No generics. It is heterero
heterogeneous collection. Okay. Different type of objects are there. Now I am trying to introduce generics
array list. Last point here array list. AL. Now I'm
writing what generic integer AL4 equal to new array list. Uh whenever
you write generic we are with the generic
providing type information to compile. Which
information you provided? Integer. Then it is homogeneous or heterogeneous?
Is a homogeneous collection. Which collection? integers collection.
Now tell me when I write al4 add what the parameter type integer file
semicolon uh tell me now am I allowed to store any other type of objects no only
I can store what integers only integers only we can store only inteious we can
store tell me when I have only integers any chance to get class cast exception
when will you get class cast exception if you have different type type of values are there. Here we have only same
type of values. Next AL okay tell me here autoboxing
generics is there and also autoboxing is there now I want to call AL4.get Get of
by passing zero. Tell me what is the get method return type? No, you used what?
Generic. When you use generic the return type will be object or generic type. Generic assigned to what? Integer. Can I
write directly? Can I write directly? Int i equal to already I in either can I directly write int say i2 equal to yes.
What is the concept here? Auto box here generic with autoboxing. Here generic
with auto unboxing. So is there any casting? No. Auto boxing. No casting.
No casting. So no class cast exception. So tell me generic will
generics comma auto unboxing comma no casting. So no class cast exception.
Generics avoid class cast exception. Now tell me I want a string. I want
collection with string object. Another instance of collection with string object. Different type of object. Then
what I write here? Integer place string. A5. Uh here what I'm allowed to write
now? A5 A5 A5 A5
A5 A5 uh five five place what you write? double quotes A, double quotes B and
double quotes C and double quotes D,
double quotes E. Okay. Uh now tell me here no autoboxing nothing only
generics. Uh now here when I call get off zero what it returns? String
directly can I assign to string now? Yes. I can assign directly to string. Can I
call directly? Yes. 2.2 to two upper case. Yes. So tell me now code simplified or not earlier we are writing
casting instance of operator lot of things but now we are not doing all we are not doing nothing just everything
will be simplified. So from Java five version onwards with generics with
autoboxing with auto unboxing program is become so simplified code become neat
and clean. So this is the story about finally generic type. So what is a
generic? Okay. Uh shall I remove all this extra explanation?
People are feeling I'm teaching lot of extra. Let me remove all these extra.
Huh? No people are saying I'm teaching so much extra not crispy small points. So
this all extra points are not equal. Let me make it direct. Okay.
So simple.
We want to decide the method parameter type at the time of class object
creation but not at the time of method definition. then
we must use genetics. Simple. Okay. Uh
now for the
same class for the same class
we want for the same class same method we want
different type parameter
B for each instance separate. ly then we must
use generals
okay as so example class object one
E1 object with integers next E2 object with strings next E2
objects with a student. Okay. Simplified. And next. Exactly. And
next here uh static generic method.
Example dot M2 of double quotes. Yep.
Uh now generics mainly used for
collections. one collection instance
with one type of object.
Okay, this is the example for this
up to Java 1.4 Before
these are not required any
complete notes.
And here gener
that's it. Okay, with this we completed generics. Let me upload that program.
Okay, the next topic we need to understand in Java 5 version is test 03
sorry it's not for loop it is for each loop
a very simple topic main method just 2 minutes drop I'm creating one array int array I a equal
to lower bracket what you write 5a 6a 7a
8 and now I want to retrieve elements available in this array how many we can
retrieve approach one approach one what do you write system
dot outprint ln uh I a of what do you write now zero
1 2 3 4
not alert we'll get array index out of bounds exception. So there is a chance we'll get array index out of bounds
exception. So what is the problem here? Static nature code
because every time when array size is changing increasing or decreasing we have to change the code. Then what the
solution to this option number two? What the option number two? Uh s uh we can
use what for same logic you are executing same snn
you are executing by changing what index number uh can you take this index? Can
you take this index as a variable? Yeah int index start from where? Zero. So you
write what here? Zero. And then how long you want to increase? Zero, increase by
one, increase by two, increase by three. Then how long you want increase? Index
less than or less than what do you write? I a dot length I index ++.
And now tell me here also we will get the same number of values. Control F.
Okay. Look at FI 6 7. Here we have two problems. Two problems. Problem number
one. Knowingly or unknowingly you may write here I less than or equals to
there is a chance you write I less than or equals to then we will get what array index out of bounds exception so with
this what you'll get only values here we will get what values plus array
index out of bounds exception problem number one problem number two some micro
systemystems promised what the promised The sun micro system promised you don't
write I will look at here some micro system carefully observing Java file
you are writing this code every time you are writing this code
okay every time you are writing this code every time you are writing this code
right you are writing getting every time this code. Okay, this code is become repeated. Let me make it simplified.
Approach number three. What the approach number three? You don't worry about index. I will take care of index. This
for loop I am enhancing this for loop. I am enhancing. What enhancing? Previous
for loop contain how many separators? Three semicolon semicolon semicolon.
Previous previous for loop contain three expressions with the separator semicolon. Now I'm giving only two sub
two expressions with a one separator. What the separator colon? Why colon?
Because semicolon on semicolon key what is there? Colon. Your finger already
habitated with our for semicolon. For semicolon shift for semicolon shift semicolon become what? Colon. Uh next
left side what you want? Value. Right side you want value from where? I A. From which from which array you want to
take value? I A only write I A. You want to retrieve value and store in which variable? Int value. Take that value.
Here also I want to put like this int value. Int value equal to I A of I. I a
of index. I A of index. And here I'm writing what value? Why? You just take care of
variable name. this entire uh this entire repeated code I will take care
only you think about where you want to store what is your business logic so what is this this is business logic so I
will take care of everything you just focus on your business logic and now what is the for loop new syntax we got
the new for loop syntax is like this for into which variable you want to take
from which array you want to take and what you want to do with that value just print so tell me now from Java of five
version onwards. We can enhance for loop
for simplifying preparing the loop or it is also called what? Enhance sorry it is
also called what? For each loop. Why it is called for each loop? Because this
for loop is executed for each value available in the array. For each value
available in the array for each value available. That's why is called what? for each somewhere syntax mistake
extra bracket coming
okay look at there I'm getting 5 6 7 8 or not what is your job from Java 5 onwards will you use SOP ch regular for
loop no we use for each loop yes but the limitation of for each loop
It can be used only for retrievation
if you want. Iterate
the loop for number one.
retrieving, comma,
retrieving, then replacing or removing.
Retrieving then replacing or removing.
Retrieving then replacing or removing. We must use
old form. with
index. Why? Tell me if you want store I want to do some changes. What are the
value available? Uh for example, let me write the code.
Increase values increase all values
in the array by by 10. and tell me regular
for each loop can I use now I'm writing for each loop for int value
int value increase all values where in the array
colon what do you write now I then system out print value + 10 now the
value + 10 increased where in the arena on the console on the console. System dot out.print.
What happened? Yeah.
What is happening here?
Right.
I look at there what I'm getting 15 16 17 18 after that if I print array again
what values we will get increased value of original values original value 5 67
what I want to do I want increase values wherein array Okay.
Look, I'm getting old values. I don't want old values. I want increased
values. Then what should I do? I have write the code like this. for int i =0 i
less than i a dot length i ++
open bracket what I should write I a of okay let me write logic like this int
value equal to i a of i then what happened first value I got increase the
value by 10 where you want to store this value print store for storing purpose
again I should write I a of I take the value increase the
value and then what store after storing I am printing the value by using for
regular for loop here what am I doing updating array
elements by using regular for loop.
I want to call it as regular for loop. And again what are you doing
retrieving and printing by using for each loop
for each loop is only for retrieving purpose. Look
at there. I'm getting
I'm getting 15 16 17 18 now. Uh so regular for for each loop is only meant
for what? Retrieving not meant for increasing. If
you want to increase I have to use regular for loop only. If you want to update, update the elements available in
the array. Retrieve and then retrieve and then
okay retrieving then replacing or removing we must use old for loop with index like this and then retrieving
purpose enhanced for loop. That's a story about enhanced for loop. We can also use enhanced for loop for
retrieving and printing values from collection also. Now I want to use again
why the for loop is given. Perl loop is also basically
for loop enhanced for loop or for each loop is given for simplifying what collection
program for retrieving
elements from collections with less
Okay, let me show you that also. Everything whatever the new features you are learning everything is for
collection zone. Autoboxing, auto unboxing,
generics and for each loop all I am using single pro
error list of I'm taking integer a1 equal to new error list of al1 dot add
of 5 add of 6 add of 7 add of 8. Okay. And add of
nine. Okay. Then I want retrieve these values. How to write now? Four. Int i =
0 i less than a1 dot size
i ++ object OB. Okay. Not object require directly. I can write what? int I int
value equal to equal to uh al1 dot get
of i tell me here what I have used generics
uh what we have used here auto box uh here what I have used auto unbox and
here what I have used for loop okay for loop with for loop regular for loop we have used Then I'm writing system.out
print value with sopl.
Okay. Now I want to write uh this is which style old style Java 1.4
Java 1.4 style code. What I want Java Pi version with the
for each loop. Can you help me out to write for each loop? Uh tell me this entire index
numbers all this nonsense or this everything is gone. Uh now this part
retrieving part is going into here. Uh now get method not required. assignment
replace with colon
that's all same code I have written right so now tell me previous code to
this code are you feeling the change code is simplified or not this is old
code common and this is new code F same values
5 6 7 8 9. Okay. Now, so this is the basic idea about for each loop all
points. So for each loop is used for finally retrieving elements from array
and collection. for each loop
elements from array and collection objects with less
code. What is the limitation?
using for each loop. We can only
retrieve elements but we cannot
update or delete
Okay. Can I hope all people understand? So what we completed today generics and for each loop. So hope you will all
practice generics and for each loop. Okay. Tomorrow no class. Next class is on Wednesday.
I already told you tomorrow I I cannot take class. Tomorrow I have some work. So tomorrow please try to work on inner
classes. First two videos okay or not okay it's your wish but last two videos
can you complete anonymous inner class? Anonymous inner class topic you have to complete. Check where anonymous inner
class is available. I didn't know exactly where it is.
This is another local Yeah, this is a method local in our
class.
Yeah. So last video you try to watch this is anonymous in our class. Yes.
Tomorrow, tomorrow you have 2 hours uh free time. Tomorrow I want you complete
this anonymous scenarios so that Java 8 new feature lambda
expression easily you can understand. Okay. Now today practice generics and
for each loop both small programs you type and understand. Second tomorrow 9
to 11 2 hours this anonymous inner class these all in your free time after 1 year
also no problem one year or two years or you know when you face any difficulty in your projects when inner classes are
used face any difficulty the time you watch now this video is important anonymous inner class tomorrow 9 to 11
try to complete it and Wednesday we will start Java 8 new features okay thank you
that's all for today questions
Thank you. Honest students, any questions

