ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
Okay. So last class we have completed default methods and we completed static
method in interface. Right. So from Java 8 version onwards in the interface I can
create uh what are the different members I can create?
uh uh public default implemented methods, public static implemented methods we can create. Uh next in Java 7
up to Java 7 version we can create only static final fields, abstract methods, static inner class. So from Java 8
onwards we can create these two members. From Java 9 version onwards we can also create private static implemented
methods, private non-static implemented methods. Okay. Uh now let's see now what
we need to understand
from which version onwards private methods are allowed
8 n uh interface something I'm taking m
uh inside this interface I'm creating something like this public
abstract ydm1 is it abstract method this abstract
method implemented by this interface developer or implementation class developer uh now I'm creating one more
abstract method allowed yes next these two methods are meant for forcing
implementation class developer to implement now I'm taking another method public void M3 uh tell me I want to add
implementation body to add implementation body I have to declare this method either as
static or as default I'm declaring it as static can I create two static methods
yes more than two static methods next public uh now wide m to provide
implementation body I should declare it as default and also I'm declaring it as default so two default methods I have
taken two static methods, two default methods. Now tell me inside the interface I can create multiple abstract
methods, multiple uh static implemented methods, multiple default implemented
methods we can create. Now my question when you develop multiple static
methods, static methods are meant for providing reusability code, utility logic, default methods also meant for
developing reusable code. Now the question is is there any chance that in the static methods we can have same
logic repeated? There is a chance same logic repeated
inside default methods also there is a chance same logic is repeated. When same
logic is repeated is it a good idea to place repeatedly or one time and reuse?
Then where I have to place one time and reuse in M3 place and call in M4. No, M3
has its own logic. M4 has its own logic. Only some part of the logic is repeating
between M3 and M4. In that case, what I have to do? I must write logic in one method and access in another method.
Create separate common method. Uh create separate method
M7 tell me this M1 M7 method should have a logic. Now this M7 method should be
static or non-statical. You want reuse this method logic in which method?
I'm not asking I created this method as what? I'm not asking that. I should create this method as what type of
method. You want to develop reusable logic for both static methods. Then this method should be static.
Uh if you declare as a static and leave it as it is, then this M7 method can be
accessed by other developers and implementation class developers. uh this method for other developers
purpose only within the same class two methods purpose then in that case what I have to do declare it as private uh now
tell me what is introduced private static method where this method allow to call inside M7 method and inside M8
method sorry inside M3 and M4 inside M3 M4 I have called M7 M7 then what
happened when other developer call M3 three method then M3 method logic executed plus M7
logic also executed. When other developer call M4 method, M4 method logic executed plus M7 method is also
executed. Understand? Uh from which version onwards private methods are introduced? Java 7 Java 9 version
onwards. Why? For providing reusable logic for other static implemented
methods for accessing it in the same class. Same point is applicable. Tell me
default methods are static or non-static. Non-static. Now I'm writing void M8 method. Uh this M8 method I
created to develop main logic or the reusable logic for these default
methods. Reusable logic for these default methods. Right? Then this method
allowed to access from other other classes are not allowed. Not allowed. Then again we have to declare this
method as private. So private void M8. So in Java 8 version to provide utility
implementation to be reused by implementation classes and user classes
we have static implemented method uh to provide a new functionality to this
interface common to all subasses not forcing them to implement. Then we have default implemented method for providing
reusable logic for the static methods. Sta private static method for providing
reusable logic for non default methods they given what private non-static
methods. So that's it. So the whenever you need to write in in interface within
the logic to execute we can use private static and private non-static. Next point. From Java 8 version onwards
inside interface, can I create main method?
From Java 8 version onwards, can I create main method? Yes, because public
static methods are allowed inside interface. What is main method? Public static method up to Java 7 version. Can
I run interface? No. From Java 9 8 version onwards, can I run interface?
Yes. But is it recommended to use interface for a executable class? No.
It's a bad programming practice. Understand? You can jump from the fifth floor to down. But is it recommended?
No. No. No. No. It's not recommended. You have to go by steps or lift because I can jump and if you jump, it is a bad
programming. Okay. Same point here. I can write main method inside the interface. But interface is not meant
for using executable class. It is used for only for providing declarations for the
subclass for creating main type object. Okay. So this is Java 9 new feature.
What is that? Private method. Okay. With this we have completed interface enhancements. What is that? Default meth
default implemented method static implemented method and private implemented method. From Java from Java
eight version onwards inside interface totally how many members we can create? Seven types of members. Number one,
public static final fields, public abstract methods, public static inner
classes. And next, public default implemented methods, public static implemented methods, private static
implemented method, private non-static implemented methods. Okay. Right. So now
let's try to move to the next Java 8 new feature. With this we completed all the
all the main features of Java 8 interface enhancements. Then let us try to move to the next section of the next
section of Java 8 new features that is functional programming. Functional
interface added functional interface annotation. Now let me ask a question.
Java is a what style of programming language? Object oriented programming language.
What is the meaning of object oriented programming language? Object- oriented programming language means you will
develop a program in Java around one object for representing that real world
object in programming world by storing its data implementing its operations and
create one of its instances means individual objects and perform operations store data specific to
individual instance and perform operations specific to individual instances that is called objectoriented
programming. Now I have a one question.
I want to develop adding two numbers logic. What do you have to do?
I want to create I want to develop adding two numbers logic. What you have to do?
You have to create directly logic. Can you write? You have to create class. Then inside class you
have to create method. main method method not main method I'm not didn't ask you executable logic you develop
right I'm asking develop adding two numbers logic you have to create a class inside class you have to create methods
inside method you have to create logic just by creating class and method is the
logic automatically executed by JVM no we have to call it for calling purpose
what I required object so tell me for small one line of code to write what the
one line of code s ln 10 + 20 one line of code to write also you have to double
m class following by method following by
object then using object dot you have to call the method is a lengthy process or not uh to overcome that problem a new
style of programming is introduced called what functional programming uh now observe what is this function what
is a function where This word function is there
uh in C language from where it come into the C language. What is the root for C language?
Massive. In mass you have f of x. What is f there? Function. Function of x
means one mathematical operation. I want to perform one mathematical operation.
In Java, if you want to develop one mathematical operation, you have a lengy process. What is the lengthy process?
Create class. Create method, create logic, then create object using object
call that that is a lengy process. Functional programming saying that don't follow that on the nonsense.
You want logic write logic directly
method no method class no class object no object directly
write logic Java is a object oriented programming language without class
without method how can I write logic for executing purpose you create class
main method but inside main method you want to execute logic to execute logic
old style what you Create one class. Create one method. In the main method, you create object that Jamana gone. You
can directly create what? Huh? Directly create what? Logic. Tell
me if you want to create real world object in the programming world. For creating real world object in the
programming world, object- oriented programming language providing building blocks. Now, what are the building
blocks of object oriented programming? Class and object. Class and object are
the building blocks of the object oriented programming. Same way what are
the building blocks of the functional programming. Just like that create logic and cannot create logic. We
need some concepts. Some building blocks are required. Some programming elements are required. What are the building
blocks of the functional programming? Functional programming, it's a building
blocks. The building blocks of functional programming is functional interface,
lambda expression. What are the building blocks? Functional interface and lambda expression. So what
is a functional interface? And tell me functional interface is a interface. It
is just interface. You know how to create interface? Create one interface called addition.
Interface addition open bracket closed bracket. Uh interface contain what type of methods? Abstract methods,
uh, static implemented methods, default implemented methods, uh, private
implemented, private static and private non-static implemented methods. Okay. How many abstract methods?
How many abstract methods we can create?
How many abstract methods we can create? Hello. Hello. Hello. Do you have life in
your body? You have life. You have life. You have life.
You have life. Thanks. Finally, you have life
in a interface. How many abstract methods we can create?
Think louder
inside interface. How many abstract methods we can create?
Is today first class? Four months completed income. If you don't talk then what the use of these
four months
right tell me to all the way thousands of kilometers you travel and come for
what purpose to see my face you want to see my face I'll show YouTube videos you can watch my
How many days you'll sit silently man and tell me inside interface how many abstract methods we can create? Multiple
don't create create only one method only one abstract method then
that is called functional interface. A functional interface is a sam not santa.
Okay sam sam means what? single abstract method interface. So functional
interface is a single abstract method interface. A interface that contain only
one abstract method is called functional interface. Sir if I create a interface
inside interface I can create multiple abstract methods. I want to restrict the
compiler array compiler either me or other developer knowingly or unknowingly if try to create multiple abstract
methods throw the error then declare that interface with what at the rate functional interface annotation as long
as you create only one abstract method then that interface is called what
functional interface but there is a chance knowingly or unknowingly I may add one more abstract method then to
stop adding more abstract methods you have to declare it as what? At the rate functional interface. If you declare as
at the rate functional interface then compiler will throw error. What the error?
It is not a functional interface. Remove this annotation. Remember at the rate override annotation. Uh if you write one
method in the subclass if you add override compiler treat it as a overriding method compares its signature
with the methods available in the super class. If signature is not same throwing error. Similarly, if you want to
guarantee this interface is a functional interface add the annotation what added
functional interface annotation. So tell me again what is functional programming? It's a new style of programming. With
the functional in programming we can we can write logic directly without class
without method without object. You no need to write extra code directly. We
can write logic and we can directly pass the logic as a argument. Tell me if you
want to pass calculator is there. There is a class called what? Calculator. The calculator contains a method called
what? Calculate to the calculator. What calculation is a calculator? Know what calculation you want? No. When you open
calculator here you are pressing what? Plus
you given what? Eight. Which calculation you want calculator asking you are saying what plus and three that means
you given logic what 8 + 3 giving as a argument to calculator
adding those two numbers and giving you 11 that means what you are passing to the calculator logic. Uh now tell me I
have one method that accepting addition logic then addition logic I want to pass as a argument. Earlier if you want to
pass addition logic you have to create a class then addition method addition logic then go to main method. In the
main method create addition object and pass addition object as a argument. It
is a lengthy process. Before Java 8 version there was a
language called scalar. Scala. No, Scala. What is the language name? Scala.
Scala is come to the market and saying Java very tough you know because if you
want to pass a simple logic as argument in Java or any programming language
everything is what? Argument. We are writing the different different different classes. All these classes we have to connect by passing them as what?
Arguments. Method calls and arguments. So scala is saying that
scala uh scala okay it is saying that
your Java programming language is very difficult because you are writing so
much of logic first you have to write a class then next you have to write method
then you have to create object and then pass object as a argument oh my god it's very tough use my language scala
My language is saying you don't write logic, don't write the class, don't create method, don't write create
object. You want to pass logic a plus b pass directly. You want to pass a minus b, pass directly. You want to pass a
into b, pass directly. No class, no method, no object. Then
Java people look at the scala. Okay, scala you have directly logic passing
functionality. you supporting functional programming. My Java not supporting functional programming. Okay, because
developers are interested to follow functional programming in a Java 8 version. Functional programming is
introduced. Scala gone from the market. People who wish to use Scala all people
have shifted back to what Java understands
in Amir we have only Java.NET training institutes. Suddenly
Scala language training institutes are came. After Java 8 version came, all
Scala training institutes and faculties are again shifted back to Java institutes are gone. So Java is
observing which language is supporting which feature enter people are like to use this concept. Okay, let me add. So
from Java 8 version onwards uh it is supporting what style of
programming only functional programming as part of object oriented functional programming.
Next what are the building blocks of functional programming functional interface and lambda expression? Now my
question is it possible to avoid the method completely? No no no no you
cannot you need if you want to call we need a method prototype now you cannot
completely avoid the method. So first what you have to do which logic you want to develop addition logic then declare
one interface in that interface declare one function as abstract method enough
then this abstract function what logic you want adding two numbers then directly write logic no further class no
further uh object then sir how to write logic for this functional interface without
writing class as a subclass that is where we have to use a special syntax called what? Lambda expression. So what
is a lambda expression? Lambda expression is a function. Which function? Named function or nameless
function? Nameless. Anonymous. Nameless function. A anonymous function. Lambda
expression is an anonymous function. Sir lambda expression you are saying anonymous function. Function is nothing
but about logic. If you develop logic without name, how can we call and
execute? Sir, uh really speaking, lambda expression is not anonymous function.
Its name is the name available in this functional interface.
I have created a functional interface with what? Addition. Inside I created a method with what? Add. What is the
lambda expression? Method name add. But while creating lambda expression we
don't use the name of the method directly we write logic but the method is connected this logic is connected to
that that functional interface how to connect I will show you. So now tell me if you want functional programming to
develop what are the programming elements you have to learn two what the two functional interface number two
lambda expression. So first let us try to understand functional interface then later understand lambda expression then
I will show you how to develop what functional programming. Okay, let's start
functional interface
both I will cover here itself functional interface and at the rate
functional interface. I cannot write symbol in the class name. No, that's why I'm writing the word add functional
interface. Uh now this is a main method. Currently
we are not running the functional interface. We are learning only how to create functional interface. I'm writing
an interface I1 empty interface.
I'm writing one interface I2 with one abstract method. I'm writing another
interface I3 with two abstract methods or three abstract
methods more than one abstract method. And now carefully observe this interface
is called marker interface. An empty interface.
An empty interface that an empty interface is technically
called what? Marker interface. So what the use of this empty interface?
Interface is main target is what? Providing type. I want to consider one class as a particular type. For example,
if you want to use your object in for each loop, that object must be iterable
type. If you want to use your object as a try with resource parenthesis, the
object must be autoclosable type. If you want to save your object inside a file,
it must be serializable type. Remember a serializable uh so tell me if you wanted
to provide only type to the one class don't want to force implement any method
then we use what marker interface. So a marker interface is a empty interface
that is meant for only providing type to it. Marker interface for only providing
type to it's a implementation class to consider it as
special type of object for executing
some special logic.
to provide permission
for executing special logic. For example,
serializable either marker interface
for executing What is that logic?
Serializable logic. So tell me first point what is that
marker interface. Second what is this interface?
Is it a marker interface or functional interface? Uh it is a first type. It is first type
marker interface. Second one is functional
interface. What is the functional interface? SAM single abstract method interface. Now for what purpose? For
developing or enabling functional programming.
functional programming where in Java for passing
for passing or storing for storing or passing or returning anything storing or
passing or returning what
a function or a logic directly
as argument. Uh by creating or without creating?
Without creating extra class,
extra class or object. Extra class and object
without creating extra class and object. So what is the purpose of functional interface? for developing or enabling
functional programming in Java. Uh let me remove this developing for
enabling functional programming in Java. Uh for storing or passing or returning
what a function or a logic as argument.
Okay. Without creating extra class and object. Then tell me what is this
interface? Is it a marker interface? No. Functional interface? No. What is this?
Business interface. This word is my word. Sun micro system
didn't given. They call this is just interface. But I want to call it as what? Business interface. Why business
interface?
Uh why it is called business interface? For representing
main type of an object. It is meant for representing
for representing the main type of an object
by declaring its operations
for forcing
for forcing to implement
it's implement mentation classes developers.
Okay. Uh now finally what how many types of interfaces Java support
types of interfaces available in Java. Up to Java 7 version we have only two
types of interfaces are there. Number one marker. number two.
Uh
number one marker number two business I1 I2 I3 already there and there
that's the problem Take this.
Okay. Now repeat once again. Up to Java 7 version we have only two types of interfaces. Marker interface and
business interface. Means in Java up to Java 7 version this one abstract method
interface is also called what? Business interface, marker interface, interface
from Java 8 version onwards. Now this is specially called as what? Functional interface.
Okay, all points are three clear. Next point very important. How can we
guarantee a interface contain a interface contain only one abstract method? How can I guarantee? For
example, I'm taking this as interface I4. I want this I4
as only functional interface. Then must then must have only
one abstract method. Must have only one abstract method. I created YM1. Can you
guarantee
What is spelling of guarantee? Huh? Can you guarantee it has only
one abstract method? Answer is yes or no. No.
Okay. No. If we add one more
abstract method will compiler throw error compiler doesn't throw error
because it is a interface then how can I tell to compiler compiler don't add one
more abstract method uh now for that we must add at the rate functional
interface Okay, let me take another interface II5
open bracket. I'm adding at the rate functional interface. Uh here I'm writing look at that. If I write just
empty, it is throwing error empty compiler throwing error saying that one
abstract method is necessary. Next if I create at that functional interface with
with one abstract method v1 error no error no error
control shift you have to
Okay. Uh now here what I write no compile time error because it has only one abstract method. Now I'm trying to
write I6. Uh now one more abstract method I have added allowed and not
allowed. Not allowed. compiler throw error where i6 saying that it is not
functional interface remove this. Hope you all understand now. Uh now what I
should do? I should comment empty. So what is a functional interface? Why
functional interface? How to create functional interface? Understand? Right. Now I want to ask a question. Functional
interface is meant for representing one mathematical function. If you want to write, if you want to develop logic to
perform one mathematical operation, you need inputs. Now, so I have to create
method with parameter, without parameter, with the parameter I have to create. Now
answer my question, everyone should answer. Okay. Inside a functional interface, can I create multiple OB? I'm
creating M2 method as default method. Allow
I6 I7 default method I'm creating allowed allowed multi one abstract
method plus uh n number of
n number of what n number of default method static method
private methods are allowed okay now look at here I'm creating multiple default methods any objection to
compiler No, I'm creating multiple static methods. Any objection to
compiler? No, but method name should be different.
M5 M6. Uh I'm creating multiple private
any objection to compiler. No. No. Next point. Now I'm trying to create interface I8.
Uh now I marked it as added function interface. So it must have one abstract
method. I added one abstract method. Now my question is function and interface is meant for representing one function
means one mathematical logic. For that sometimes I required what input. Then
can this method has a parameter? Yes. Now my question this method can take
only integer. Okay. Then how can we pass
double or long
or car care car will also accept boolean or string or student
yellow.
How will you pass overload? Can I overload method?
Huh? Can you overload method in this interface?
Compiler call. Functional interface means what? Only
one abstract method. Then how can you overload? What the answer?
No. Okay, because it is a
functional interface, single abstract method interface.
You cannot overload. Then I have another option. Simple. Create one more interface.
You cannot overload method in the same class. Create another interface. Interface II9 open bracket close at the
rate function and interface. What do you want? I want same function. I want the
same function with a double.
What the answer? Create another functional interface. Hello. If you
create another functional interface like this, how many functional interfaces?
Raja. Okay. How many different values you want
to take to perform this operation? Those many hello. Then question hello.
How many functional interfaces?
Sorry. Understood.
Program become static nature.
Every parameter one new interface. Second
program becomes static nature. Second problem number of
Java files and dotclass files are increased. Is it okay? No. Uh can you
tell me any feature there in Java that create one class represent different
type of values? Come on.
Do you have any feature in Java that represents
one parameter different type of values? Huh?
Yes sir. What is that solution?
What are object class as parameter?
Solution object class as a parameter. Uh how to write now interface
I I 10 open bracket at the rate
functional interface. Now what you write
object okay now okay okay now okay now
okay now not okay now not okay why not okay
this M1 method taking as a object can you restrict I want only integer I want
only double I want only string can you restrict type of values to pass based on
the instance of this interface. No. Uh problem
problem. We cannot restrict the user
don't say
type of value based on
the instance. Okay. Type of value based on instance.
All different type of values can be passed. We cannot restrict the type of value based on the instance of this
interface. What the solution? Final solution.
Lambda expression. Oh my god.
I am teaching already completed topic again. No one is getting the thoughts.
Generics solution use generic parameter.
Now tell me what the generic parameter interface
I 11 open bracket what you write y M1 uh
what I should write here fix the type dynamically take the type uh what if you
want take dynamic type what I write angular bracket
uh delete all these
create generic functional interface.
And now we can pass
a order different type of
uh we can pass all types of values.
Uh tell me based on
the instance specific based on the instance specific instance
one integer only pass integer instance two double only pass double like that we can pass not mixing. So uh finally tell
me most of the functional interfaces are normal interfaces are generic functional
interfaces generic because functional interface is meant for
uh develop the logic on arguments functional interface are
mathematics mathematics are required what values values are taken as parameter sometimes I need multiple
values okay then write T comma U T comma
UU okay I 111 I12 so multiple parameters
interface tell me according to math maximum will work with what two values
not more than that okay so more than two values I want create your own interface
okay now so whenever you are generalizing mathematics means what zero
or one or what two or no more than two I want then Take where are then take what?
Where are where will we accept today? Let me see.
Uh accepting where if you want more than one instead of taking two parameters take T and T dot dot T. So this method
can be called this t type multiple values where argue can take okay now I
want to take two arguments then I'm writing what t comma utt comma ut okay
uh next now I want multiple okay more than two I want then more than two means
you take it as where 30
is it clear uh next sir I want return type sir okay you want return type
return type if you want then take in place of void what t after this method
executed I want return value then take m1 here wide place what t whatever the
type you mentioned that type of value only it will return sir I want parameter
and return type both okay super then what do you write here i14
t comma r t comma r t will go as a
parameter type stands for what type and R will go as a return type. This method
will take that value as a argument. Inside method logic, we will perform the operation generate the result. That
result we are returning from this method. What type of result I can return as per my wish? Based on the type you
specified int if you specify what value I should return in double if you specify what
value should return double. So tell me finally I wanted to return I
want to develop functional interface without any parameter zero parameter
functional interface means method with no parameter I want one argument functional interface then I have two
options you want always particular type then take the type no any type I want accept don't take object wherever you
are planning to take object in place of object what you write and generic syntax you write I want two parameters ters
then two generic parameters more than two where are one parameter with where are you right I want one parameter one
return type two generics T or T as a parameter or as a return type everyone
understand uh so tell me are these interfaces will serve the requirement of
all programmers or not either you I or other people maximum everyone should
create these are the functional interfaces so Now we completed what is
that functional interface and then what generic functional interface. Functional
interface. Generic functional interface.
Okay. Functional interface. Generic functional interface. What is a functional interface? An interface that is created with only one abstract method
is called functional interface. A functional interface can have zero to a number of parameters. If you want to
take functional interface parameter then choose with the generic syntax. So then that that functional interface is called
what generic functional interface. If you want to take one parameter one generic two parameters two generic more
than two one parameter with varch syntax you want to return only one value want
only value return no parameter one generic syntax one generic parameter I want parameter and return type two
generic parameters recommended terms are what parameter type t
return type r okay now I want two parameters and one return type Then
tell me I want two parameters and one return type. Then what do you write
t comma u comma r t comma u will go as a
parameters and r will go as a return type. I want more than two values and
one par one return type. Then t comma r here what you write t where
other so all people are got comfortable on how to develop functional interface.
Okay. So if you try these examples by your own you will understand. First I explained types of interfaces available
in Java. Then we started understanding creating
functional interface with and
without parameter and return type. Okay, this is the next
point we discussed students.
Okay, now sleeping up.
We must store values and logic by using a class and we must pass
values and logic as object.
For that first we must create a class then create fields then we must create
object pass it as argument inside that called method by using its parameter
we can access methods to execute logic and read fields values. This is object-
oriented programming lengy process. Next functional program. As part of
functional programming, we can pass
logic as argument directly without creating explicit class and object. No
need to define separate class. No need to create object directly. We can pass
logic as argument. If you pass logic directly as a method argument, how can
we receive? How can we store and receive? Okay, store, remove. How can
receive it as a argument? What is the method parameter type? How can invoke that logic to execute? What is this?
What is the method name? Uh that is where what are the building blocks of object oriented programming class and
object or instance. What are the building blocks of functional programming? Functional interface and
lambda expression. Answer here by using
functional interface and
lambda expression. So what are the building
blocks? What are the building blocks? Functional interface. An interface that has only one abstract method is called
functional interface. A single abstract method interface is called functional interface. A functional interface is
used for developing a lambda expression for passing logic directly as argument
to a method without creating separate class and object. A functional interface is created by using the keyword
interface. But it must have only one abstract method. It can have a number of
it can have a number of default and default static and private.
private implemented method
implemented. For example, functional interface, it is also functional interface. Is it a functional interface?
No. Then sixth question, how can we stop adding more abstract methods in functional interface? We must mark this
interface as functional interface by using a marker interface at the functional interface. Functional
interface, no error. Functional interface error. Okay. Next, how many ways we can create a functional
interface? Two ways. What the two ways? Number one, effectively as a functional
interface by creating only one abstract method explicitly by marking it as a functional interface by using at the
rate function interface annotation. What the mainly a functional interface is meant for passing a mathematical
validations or calculation logic directly as argument to a method. This is the reason this interface is named as
functional interface. How can we create functional interface to take different type of values and objects as argument
and return? Use object as parameter and return type. Worst approach. Why?
Because we cannot restrict the type. We cannot provide type information to the compiler. We have to type cast and we
have to do lot of other operation. Use generic feature. Create generic type parame generic type function interface
as shown in the below programs.
It notes. Oh
after failing if you practice no use
before before start before going for war to the cala we have to practice all our
vialhalu and then go and kill the kala and come back okay first I will try how
the kala fight with me I will see his you know power and efficiency and then
come back and do the practice and go back for fighting and will k give second opportunity
many students used to say me I want to first check how the questions are asking the interviewer
Whatever there in your syllabs he will ask. If you prepare with a mind what
questions can be asked from this topic you prepare and then go so that he will ask the same questions.
interview is a demo. You want interview demos? It is not demorable. If you want demo,
then ask your friend to act as a interviewer. First of all, you should know now sir. Wonderful. That's why
there are so many websites are there for you to conduct mock interviews. There are so many websites are there. Go
functional programming entry questions. Whatever the questions are there in the
website, same questions you will ask in the interview. So prepare with a feeling what questions can come from this topic.
How did I prepare this much syllabus? Why I cannot complete like a YouTube res? Because I have so much of knowledge
in my brain. How I got this much brain? Always I ask a question. What possible questions? What possible question? What
possible question? One a topic. If I take minimum 10 to 20 points I wanted to
prepare and points my brain blasting sir blasting and you are not suitable for
the software industry. Get out go and work in a where in a field where your
body and your mus your strength only can be used hardware industry. Software industry means brain calculation. If
your brain is taking pressure you are not suitable for software industry. First day only I told you if you take it
as a pleasure not suitable for soft industry. If you take it as a pleasure
one letter different pressure your life is gone pleasure you will
enjoy lacks of rupees you will get salary. So which side you are
pleasure side pleasure side okay more points when you are learning you are getting pleasure not suitable for
software industry when you are learning more points you are getting enjoyment
pleasure you are getting you are suitable for software industry. So next the next topic we have to learn how to
implement functional interface. How can we implement
functional interface? Previous program.
What did you learn in the previous program? How to create functional interface? What the building blocks of
the functional programming? Two functional interface. Lambda expression. What did you learn in the previous
program? How to create functional interface? Completed. Now I want to
implement functional interface. Take one functional interface. interface
addition. Okay. Now if I take interface addition
while the method I will have v add with what parameter int a comma int b first
I'm writing old style then I will change it to new style old style I'm writing
old version I'm following interface addition add a comma b if I want to
subtract I want subtract
sorry first let me complete addition then I come for subtraction This interface contain add method with
implementation or without implementation. Uh I want to provide implementation. What will you do? Old
style I'm asking object oriented programming style old style. Once I give interface what will you do? You will
implement it by creating one implementation class. How class addition
implation keyword is what? Implements which interface addition open bracket closed
bracket. What method you have to implement? Public vid add up. What is
the parameter? int a comma int b. What do you write? System dot out dot print
ln a + b. And then
uh next what you write? Main method class. Uh in main method
class what you write? Create object addition A equal to new addition impladd
10, 20. Tell me the execution flow.
Exe compiler JVM search for add of int
addition interface available as a static or non-static then executed from current
implementation class object which object provided addition go to addition found
executed result is what 30
any new point Explain this is
old style jam column style.
Who am I?
Old versions up to Java 7 version.
What is that? Separate class, separate method, separate object. Okay. Now
new style remo
old style. Okay. Now who is coming? Remo baby right. Uh new version from
Java 8 version. uh in Java 8 version new style what you follow interface you
create implementation class uh no implementation class directly main
method which interface implementation you want addition uh right addition a
equal do you have any other object no
Java 1.1 New version Java 1.1. Okay, this is old
version Java 1.0 to Java 7 version by using outer class
by using outer class uh now this is old version up to Java 1.02 0 to
from Java 1.0 to Java 7 version. Uh now this is
old style only it is also
from Java 1.1 version to Java 7 version
uh below by using anonymous
inner class anonymous inner class. What is that anonymous inner class? A class doesn't
have name. Uh observe you want to provide implementation to which class?
Addition. Addition. If you after providing implementation, you want to
store its implementation in the a variable. So what you write new following by parenthesis. If you write
new parenthesis semicolon, what happen? It will become object of interface. Compiler throw
error. Abstract addition is abstract cannot be instantiated. cannot instantiate this type addition. I don't
want instantiate addition. I want to create implementation to addition. After that you have write par open bracket
closed bracket. Then you have to write here method. What is that method? Public
wide add in a comma int B open bracket close
bracket system.out out print and double quotes from anonymous inner class result
plus bracket a + b.
Okay. And then I must call.
Then I must call this add method. Now we call a do add of 10, 20. Now tell me add
method is search in addition interface available executed from a pointing
object. What the a pointing object? Anonymous inner class object. So it is
anonymous inner class and also it is object both it is anonymous inner class
is a class and object both are there both are together we are writing whereas
outer class what he did we created a class separately we created object separately whereas anonymous inner class
is a shortcut of combining both we created a class and also we created object and tell me here what is the
logic available can you tell me by seeing this object creation statement. Can you see what is the logic running
background? No. Can you see here what is the logic running background? Yes. So the class creation, logic
implementation, object all the three points are available at single place.
So it is easy for reading and understanding. So in Java 1.1 version
shortcut of developing subasses given by using what? Anonymous inner class. Now
let's look at the logic executed from anonymous inner class. Result is what? 30. Now this is also old style.
It is also old style and lengy. Now in Java 8 version people have introduced a
new style. Java 8 version new style. What is that?
Lambda expression. Uh now look at here. I want to take
again same interface.
Observe here same interface and then same main method
up to Java 7 version everybody is developing anonymous inner class based
implementation to the interface. Suddenly some micro system has closely looking at
I write you right everyone right this is fixed or not
already you told that you want implementation for addition hello
when you write addition a equal to what you expecting this side implementation to addition then what you write I write
you write in the world any Java developer write new addition paka Open bracket fixed it addition interface
method public wide add is fixed when it is fixed why you are writing remove
what's the micros system telling you don't write I will write integer i1 equal to new integer of five I will
write I'm telling now write integer i equal to five understand uh now same way
when you write addition a equal to what you want write new addition parenthesis open bracket Publicwide add of int
that part is fixed. What is changing? Parameter names you can change. Okay.
What is changing? Logic. Logic changing. Then write only parameter list and
logic. Well, if write only parameter list and logic confusion to compiler.
What is this? It is a new style of writing. uh for this new style of
writing you remember for each loop for each loop enhance you don't write index
I will write index but how can I tell to compiler compiler I don't write index you only write index for that what we
have used semicolon colon as a separator what you written colon here also this is
a parameter and this is a body the parameter and body is separated by
separator arrow Oh,
this arrow is the operator like plus like minus like into it is a
operator. What is this operator? Lambda operator. This parameter and body
together is called what? Lambda expression. Okay. Lambda expression.
Lambda lambda expression. This lambda
expression has how many parts? Two parts. What the two parts? Parameters,
arrow, body. Parameters and body. Two parts are
combined by now. Connected by arrow. What is arrow?
Hello. Hello.
Students, can you hear me? Know
that people? Huh? So now this arrow is called lambda
operator. Uh so tell me now what is the Java 8 new style of implementing functional
interface is lambda expression. A lambda expression is a anonymous
function. Uh it is used for implementing
one functional entropy.
Okay. Is it clear? Uh what is the syntax of lambda expression? A lambda expression has two parts.
You know
lambda lambda expression has two parts.
Lambda expression uh lambda expression has two parts. What are the two parts?
Number one, parameters. Number two,
body with or without
logic. Next the two parts are
connected by arrow. What the arrow? Lambda operator. So what is the syntax?
Syntax function interface fi equal to can you create lambda expression without
functional interface? No. Lambda functional interface fi equal to uh what
you write now here parenthesis parameters arrow body semicolon inside logic
or or a method with the uh you have a method v m1 with function interface
function interface you have a method then how to call this
method m1 of uh directly can I write parameters
arrow body what do you write lo understand
if you want to store what are you doing syntax for storing in a function
interface variable uh next this is syntax number one syntax
number two what is syntax number two passing lambda
expression as argument to a method
uh what you write that method parameter should be functional interface so then
I'm calling this method by passing this is method definition and this is method
calling with lambda expression uh third syntax what the third syntax
returning lambda expression from a method. If you want to return
tell me the method return type should be what? Functional interface m_2 open bracket inside the method body I should
use what keyword return. after return what you write parameters arrow
parameters arrow body semicolon logic so these are the three syntaxes so for
storing a lambda expression is a anonymous function I can store it inside
a functional interface or I can pass it as argument to functional interface parameter method or I can return from a
functional interface return type method okay uh then now the Question
is functional sorry is lambda expression logic
executed automatically answer is what no
lambda expression is what it's just a method creation uh like normal methods
lambda expression logic is also So
not executed automatically.
So tell me here you created functional interface. Functional interface equal to
parameters arrow body semicolon logic. Here what you did you created a lambda
expression comma for executing
for executing its logic. What I should do? We must call it.
Then my question is what is the
uh name of lambda expression to call?
Tell me lambda expression name is same as what? Functional interface method name only.
Now lambda expression is the implementation of functional interface method is a shortcut of implementing.
Right? Now so tell me what is the name of lambda expression to call its name is
same as its name comma parameters
comma return type is the same as is or r or
same as functional interface method name param parameters return type.
So to execute lambda expression logic call function
interface method and then call function interface method by passing
arguments and now tell me what I should write uh again I'm taking functional interface
logic you have written what is this creation uh below what is this fi dot method
parenthesis this arguments. What is this? Lambda expression creation. Lambda
expression calling and execute. And now let us try to apply here. I am removing
this. This is uh what is this? Is it a lambda expression? This is lambda expression. Lambda
expression. Observe I got error. Why? Lambda expression parameter is become local variable to main method. Already
we have local variable A and now I'm taking it as A1. Addition A1 equal to
now this is lambda expression result a + b look at there is lambda expression
result will come let me look at here system output double quotes main start
where are you going
main endo between main start and main end the
lambda expression result will come will not come will not Okay. So now if you want to execute what
I should do? I have to call. How to call? A1 dot they when I write A1 dot
Eclipse is showing you what is the method add. So add is nothing but lambda expression name. Uh now add of what you
write 10, 20. Save it. Control one. Look at the lambda expression result 30. So
tell me what is lambda expression?
So what is the important thought process should come to your mind? A lambda expression is the shortcut way
of creating anonymous inner class.
Okay. Lambda expression is the shortcut way of creating anonymous inner class which avoids us to write the new keyword
class name and method signature directly we write method parameters following by
the logic that's all everyone understand it is a lambda expression is a shortcut
now when it is a shortcut why you are writing full cut
why you are writing In full cut when I say addition addition interface has how many methods?
One method. One method parameter a type is changing time to time or not changing
changing not change then why you writing remove it
lambda expression is what shortcut when shortcut what compiler can guess or what
the information compiler can get by its own you don't write remove it uh
interface subclass new edition impl compiler can write next method return
accessibility modified public return type method name compiler can remove it
then parameter types also can compile it because parameter types are fixed there is no need to you add then parameter
names also fixed now okay if I remove parameter names here how can I write
logic inside how the arguments can be received and stored so for developing logic what is
required parameter names parameter names following by arrow following by body.
Everyone understand once upon a time long long ago long long ago in the second month of our core Java I taught
you control flow statements. Remember in control flow statements I taught if else
if if contain only one statement body mandatory optional
why you writing body remove tell me now lambda expression now become
a single statement. Okay. Uh tell me now lambda expression
is easier outer class is easier. One more if I take outer class separate
Java file separate class and logic is also available hiding from us. I have to search very Java file under then as a
solution to outer class implementation what I got anonymous inner class implementation. If I use anonymous inner
class uh length I mean complex syntax confusion syntax what is that new
interface name parenthesis open bracket close bracket method signature open bracket close bracket logic oh again
come with clumsy syntax then Java 8 version people has introduced what functional programming as part of
functional programming what the new syntax is given lambda expression lambda expression means just parameters arrow
body logic. Okay. Then we have simplified anonymous inner class
repeated code. We have removed and introduced lambda expression. In a lambda expression, lambda expression is
already shortcut of anonymous inner class. Still we can make it as more shortcut. What the more shortcut? Uh we
can remove parameter types also. We can remove body also. When should I write
body? When more than one statement you wanted to write then we need to write
body. You are writing only one statement. body is not vector. Everyone understand lambda expression? Uh now let
me go for more syntaxes of lambda expression here. Uh what is that different?
Question number three different syntaxes of lambda expression.
First syntax parenthesis arrow body.
Second syntax one parameter body. Hey semicolon must
be there. Third syntax two parameters body. Nana bj. How many parameters I
have to take to the lambda expression? Is it my visha?
Is it my visha functional interface va? Faculties are teaching lambda expression
with a wonderful statement. Students are following a lambda expression can can have zero to n number of parameter.
Lambda expression cannot have zero to n number of parameters as you like. The number of parameters of the lambda
expression is depending on the number of parameters. The function interface it is
implementing. If a function interface is zero parameter then lambda expression should be zero parameter. Function
interface has a one parameter. Lambda expression should have one parameter. Clear? Uh next if lambda expression has
a return type then what you write parenthesis arrow open bracket return
value are object semicolon. Okay. Now if lambda expression has a
parameters and return type then what int and then return val two parameters are
there int a comma int b two parameters everyone understand? So how to create
lambda expression very simple method earlier how you write method now also
write the same way just you remove the before parameters whatever available everything you remove parenthesis and
body connect with arrow mark in the body whatever the previous logic you are writing same logic there is no
difference in logic but these are what lengthy process shortcut okay different syntaxes totally how many syntaxes
simply two syntaxes one and two these are the basic syntaxes Now shortcuts. Question number four.
Shortcuts of lambda expression. Lambda expression is shortcut. You can again make it as what? Shortcut. Uh observe
now very important. There is no shortcut here. Here we have shortcut. What is that? End. And here we
have again shortcut. Remove parenthesis also.
Understand? Remove parameter type. Uh remove
parenthesis also. If it has only one statement, remove parameter also. Next
uh next. A equal to remove body also but only one statement.
Understand? Next. Here uh two parameters remove parameter type body. Body means
multiple statements.
Students feeling which
pressure cooker prestige or pressure
fellows. Uh one statement next. Now I want return. Listen carefully.
If you want to return value with body you should write return value
without body also we can write when you write without body when you write
without body when you write without body when you write without body return
keyword should not be there directly value
understood parenthesis arrow value or object object directly. No parenthesis
and no return keyword. If you want to use written keyword, parenthesis, body, I mean body must be there. Body, if you
write return keyword, you should write no body, no return keyword, directly you can write value. Okay. Uh then next one
parameter remove parenthesis body and remove everything. Wow. Super.
Okay. Right. Next remove h sorry parenthesis you cannot parameters and remove return
keyword body and value. So these are the maximum syntaxes you are working uh once
you start where logic will write and return you
come to the pedra class I I'll slap you so that you will realize if you want
write logic in the return keyword how can I write logic return keyword meant for return value. If you want write
logic and return body you should write
all syntaxes understand first if you accept then we can write the code okay we have to practice all these syntaxes
okay uh now first I want you to understand by heart this entire notes of
lambda expression and this one program final conclusion tell me
final conclusion How many ways we can
implement a functional interface? How many ways we can implement a
functional interface? How many ways? Number one, number two
and number three and also number four. First way by using
outer class means separate class. Uh next by using anonymous inner class.
IC means inner class. Okay. Not intensive care. Next by using
the lambda. Huh? Tell me anonymous inner class is the shortcut
way of writing outer class. Lambda expression is the shortcut way of creating anonymous inner class. To the
lambda expression also we have shortcut. The shortcut is by using method
reference. Okay. Uh now first we have to get
hands-on experience on more examples on lambda expression following by we have to learn method reference. So tomorrow
we'll complete lambda expression method reference and also we will go for the next topic predefined functional
interfaces. Okay, tomorrow class we'll complete lambda expression. This all
comes under one section. Lambda expression method reference also we will understand predefined functional
interfaces also I will introduce stream API. So tomorrow class very very
important tomorrow class you want to understand you have to practice today functional interface building blocks of
fun okay functional programming building blocks of the functional programming functional interface added functional
interface lambda expression these given examples you must type in your system
while typing like how I have written question side comments you have to you also tell the same way yourself I create
I want to create one functional interface how to I want to create functional interface with the parameter.
Uh I want another parameter. Uh no lambda expression. Uh generic functional interface. Generic functional interface
with one parameter. Two parameter number of parameters. What without parameter return type with parameter return type.
So you have to start talk by yourself. Understand my point. Then I have functional interface ready. Then how to
implement functional interface? How many ways we can implement functional interface? Four ways.
How how many ways we can implement function interface? Totally four ways.
Uh what is that? Outer class. Old version from Java 1.0. Outer class means
this is outer class. You have to type this entire code step by step. Outer class. What is the
problem? Outer class means separate Java file
problem separate
Java file separate class file
and next code is not visible.
at method calling place.
Okay, these are the three problems. Uh what is the solution?
What is the solution? Anonymous class. And then
now what is that? Another style of code old style from Java 1.1 to anonymous inner class is given which version 1.1
anonymous inner class. Uh now anonymous inner class based code we have written
directly the code and call the method and then what is the problem in anonymous inner class
problems only one problem only one problem is not
easy to understand.
Okay. Uh what is the solution?
Lambda expression. So Java 8 new new style lambda expression. And then what
is the lambda expression? Anonymous function. Uh why why lambda expression? It is used for implementing one
functional interface. Uh what is the syntax of lambda expression? A lambda expression has two parts connected by
lambda operator. Okay. Uh then next what the syntax? It
has three syntaxes of course one syntax. E
parameter arrow arrow body. Uh now what are the different ways
we can use lambda expression? Three ways.
as variable
assignment. Number two as method argument
uh number three as method return val. So the first for storing in function
interface variable for passing passing lambda expression argument to function
and interface parameter method returning lambda expression from
functional interface return type method. Okay. Next is lambda expression logic
executed automatically. No. What is the name of the lambda expression to call? Functional interface method name. Next
different syntaxes of lambda expression. This is a complete syntax. These are the
shortcuts. So you have to practice shortcuts.
Uh tomorrow we are going to implement different functional interface to all
these shortcuts. So tomorrow class you want to enjoy today you practice and come. That's all for today class.
What is the value two man? Two type is what?
And then how can you pass as a enter?
Understand? You have to type cast to bite and then pass.
Tell me Ahmed you are calling sir next you didn't talk
So JavaScript
When you explain it, what
program running project running
by B equal to five. There you are directly assigning now compiler will do type casting. There in a call compiler
cannot do type cast.

