ript


Right. Good morning everyone. So last class we completed predefined
functional interfaces and their purpose. Okay. Now today let
us start understanding stream AB. Thank you.
Okay, tell me, have you heard about stream? The word stream. What is a stream?
Have you heard the word stream? Stream. Stream. What is stream?
Either in Java or in what do you call in real life? Have you heard the word
stream? I was stream. You have learned that is
that stream. This is stream both are same. IO stream
is a connection to the connection to the file for reading data and writing data.
IO stream and this is just a stream uh not stream sorry stream. Now tell me is
the word stream same meaning there and here. Yes, a stream is a flow of data.
Flow of data is called what? Stream. IO stream is a flow of data from file. From
the file coming data into the application. I stream from the Java
application going into file. O stream. Input stream output stream. Then what is
this stream? This stream is flow of data between objects. Flow of data between
objects is called what? Stream. uh now between which object from array object
to Java application collection object to Java application. So a stream is a flow
of data from array object and collection object.
I have my Java application. Inside Java application I have array object. I have
Java application. inside my Java application I have I have array
array list or collection al equal to new array list. Now I want to read data from
this array and from this collection. For reading data from this array and
collection what we will use stream we will use stream equal to
okay stream equal to which type of values the stream contain objects. Okay.
Uh now what is the purpose of the stream? Already we can read data. I can
read data by using what? For loop already. I can read data by using for
loop. Then why we required a stream object? A stream is a collection of methods that meant for stream contains
collection of methods to perform different mathematical operations on
array object and collection object. Okay, that mathematical operations are
technically called aggregate operations. what we call aggregate operation. A
stream is a sequence I mean a a stream is a flow of objects or flow of values.
A stream is a flow of values or flow of objects from array object or collection
object to Java program. A stream is used for reading the values from objects I
mean reading the values from array object and collection object by applying
some aggregate functions. Okay, let me write first point uh what is a stream?
What is a stream? A stream is a flow of values or objects.
Flow of values or objects from where? From
from an array or collection or file or socket. Socket
all socket means network computer. A stream is a flow of values or objects
from an array or collection or file or socket. Socket is nothing but network.
From the network, socket is nothing but network. From the network we can get the data
also. Next Y stream.
Second point Y stream. A stream object or simply a stream is used for reading
or you can say retrieving
values or objects from from an array or
from a collection object. Generally we will use stream for array
or from collection object. maximum these two we will use
file and socket also will be there but very rarely we will use so that's why I'm mentioning only array and collection
object by with less code by applying
aggregate functions
by applying aggregate functions This
aggregate function nothing but
mathematical operations. Operations means validations
and calculations.
Okay, when I start writing code, you will understand what the meaning of aggregate functions. So the first point,
what is a stream? A stream is an object. It is an object.
It is a flow of values or objects from an array of collection or file or
socket. Why stream? It is used for retrieving.
It is only meant for retrieving. It will not do modifications. Okay. Stream.
A stream object cannot can only can only
perform
retrieving operations. It cannot perform.
modifying operations like what is that?
Replacing, removing, inserting
operations. Okay, fine. So first of all, what is a stream? You got clarity. Why?
Why stream? You got clarity. Now, how can I get a stream object, right? If you
want to perform a flow of uh if you want to get a if you want to perform the stream operations, first of
all, you need stream object. Okay. So tell me third point, how can we create
stream object?
How can we create a stream of now? Tell me what is a stream? A stream is a flow
of data. Now let me say here
we can consider a stream is a
pipe connection. What is that? A stream is a pipe connection. Now my question is a stream
can contain values or a stream only hold values temporarily
contains values of hold values temporarily for the flow. Now
pipe can store the water. A pipe can store the water. Pipe only
help us what? Hold the water for flow. For flow, for sending the water from one
place to another place, we use the pipe. Tank will store the water. Who is the
tank here? In Java, in Java, what is the tanker? Array
object, collection object, file, network, computer is a tank that contain
data. From the tank, I want to send the water from the tank to another place.
For that we are constructing one pipe. That pipe is nothing but a what? Stream object. So we can consider a stream is a
pipe connection. So a stream cannot
contain or store values or objects.
It is just used for holding values or
objects to send them
uh the objects to perform
uh to perform what mathematical
operations with less code. Okay. Uh so
it just used for holding values or objects to perform mathematical
operations with less score and send those result values or objects
to the next operations. And what it is doing? A stream is just
meant for like piper.
A stream is just meant for
flowing data from one operation to
another operation. Very very important point. A stream cannot contain data. We
can consider a stream is a pipe connection. So third point, sorry,
second point, what is a stream? Exactly.
Exactly. A stream is what? Just a connection. A stream is just a connection.
A stream object is just a
connection. Okay, just a connection. We can consider
a stream is a pipe connection. A stream cannot contain or store values or
object. It is just user for holding the values or objects to perform mathematical operations with less code
and send those result values or objects to next operations moving from one place
to another place. like a piper. A stream is just meant for flowing data from one
operation to another operation. Then why stream? A stream is used for what
purpose? Retrieving. It is not meant for holding data. It is meant for retrieving
values or objects from an array or from a collection object with less code by
applying aggregate functions. aggregate functions and generate
new result values or objects. Okay, new
result. Okay, so first you accept this theory
when I start writing program more clarity you will get. A stream object can can only perform retrieving
operations. It cannot perform modifying operations like replacing, removing,
inserting operations on the array or collection. Okay, it can only perform
retrieving operation on array and collection. It will not perform operations like
comma. It cannot perform modifying operations like replacing, removing,
inserting operations. on the array and collection objects.
Okay. So, three points. Four points. Understand that? Now, now three points completed. Fourth point. Now, tell me
how can we create a stream object? Tell me how can we create stream object
here? What is the stream exactly? And when um
Fourth point. Let me write. When can we use or when must we use
stream object? And tell me when must we use stream object for modifying operation or for retrieving operation?
Retrieving a stream object used for only retrieving operation purpose.
A stream is used only for
retrieving
operations.
Okay. Uh next, how can we create stream object? If you want to create stream
object, now tell me what is the class name? Stream. Stream. Stream equal to
can I write new stream? Think and tell me you got some theory.
With the theory decide stream equal to new stream. Can I write?
Stream is meant for what? Storing values are retrieving values.
Values already available in other collection. Values are available already in the array. From that collection or
array, I want to take the values. So can I create stream object by using new
keyword and constructor? No, it's a wrong idea. You should not allow to create stream object now. Okay.
Now first of all, where
can we find the stream API? Stream API means the
stream class and its methods. Where can we find stream API? in the package.
The stream API means classes,
interfaces. I can say interfaces, classes and
methods are provided
in the package java uh stream a for
which programming to simplify collection programming. So where they are available
util but it is meant for collecting operation or meant for streaming
operations. Streaming streaming means dot stream package I told you know
package name must have parent package child package child package parent package represent main concept java.util
is the main concept in that stream is performing what operation sub operation so stream java.util dot stream. Uh in
this package the main
class or interface is
stream. What is that? Stream is the main interface. It's not a class actually. It
is a interface. Okay. The this in this package the main interface is
string. Okay. All required
uh for creating
stream object and for performing
the required
aggregate operations.
And for performing the aggregate operations on the stream of data,
the required methods are
provided. in this in process.
Uh shall we try once? Go and check the methods what available. And now what I
have to type java dot util stream which version you want to learn plus
Java or else directly type Java 22
Java 22 API documentation. Okay. overview Java SC22 JDK and here you type
Java dot or you can directly type okay Java
Java util stream okay
now look at that classes this package contain classes to support functional
style operation on stream of elements the values are object stored in an array
or in Collection are called what? Elements such as map reduce
transformations on collections for example int some widgets dot stream dot
filter dot map to in dot sum. So some methods they have here we use ve all
these are okay. Then the key abstraction introduced in this package is what?
Stream. The classes stream, int stream, long stream, double stream are streams
over stream is a stream over objects. Int
stream is a stream over integers. Long stream is a stream over long. Double
stream is a stream over double. Okay. Uh streams differ from collections in
several ways. Is a stream and a collection or both stream. Collection contains the object for storing and
using. Whereas stream doesn't contain object. It just hold the objects temporarily to perform some aggregate
functions and then moving those result to the next level. It is meant for only hold temporarily perform operations and
move. Okay. Right. So no storage. What the first point? From collections in
several ways. First point it is it is not meant for storage. Next, it is meant
for functional in nature. What the meaning of functional in nature? Stream operations will perform by using a
functional interface by using lambda expression. Stream doesn't contain methods directly to call and use. It is
performing on what base? Functional in nature. Next, laziness seeking laziness.
What the meaning of laziness seeking? uh if you call a method called sort
immediately it will not sort. For example, if you call uh what do you call interrupt method or when you call start
method or when you call yield method tell me uh when you call method immediately background run method
executed. No. So when JBME is found free time then only it is going and executing
run method. So that kind and immediately when you ask immediately it is not doing when time occur it is doing. For
example, if you take when you load the class by using dot class syntax example
class is loaded but static variable static blocks are executed. No, when static variable static blocks are
executed when we access at least one member from the class then static variable static blocks are executed.
That is called what? Laziness. Now tell me you are studying Java sincerely every day. No. When you will study Java,
tomorrow interview, today night, you will send a message to me. Sir, tomorrow I have interview sir. Please tell me the
important questions, what topics I have to prepare. I will send a message. Complete core Java syllabus you prepare
because in interview what topic they will ask how do I know how do you know? So I will tell the list of the important
what object oriented programming, exception handling, string handling, multi-threading, synchronization and
collections. What sir? You told complete syllabus. Yeah, that is important topics, right?
You have to practice. Uhhuh. So you are a lazy person. You are not studying the daily. You are studying just before when
required. When required that time only you are studying. Uh that feature is
called what? Laziness. So stream API will not execute the operation immediately. For example, I'm asking the
stream, you do filter, you do sort, you do transfer, you do map, you do reduce.
It will not do operation immediately. It will do that operations when we perform
the terminal operations. Okay. Let I will tell you what the meaning of intermediate terminal and all. Okay. So
what is the differences between collection and stream? The main important differences difference is
stream is not meant for storing. It is not meant for storing. It is meant for
only holding the objects temporarily. A stream is not a data structure that
stores elements. Instead, it conveys elements from a source such as
it conveys elements from a source such as a data structure, an array generated
function or an IO channel through a pipeline of computational operations.
Look at that. Through a pipeline of computational operations. Tell me from
the uh tank I'm taking water to kitchen by using single pipe or multiple
connection pipes multiple connections and when the water is moving from one pipe to another pipe in the middle can I
add the jammerson can I add the filters or so that means from one water is moved
from stream into pipe hold there and then I am processing the water and then moving the water to next pipe again
holding there again processing the water and moving to the next if you Take mineral water taking the manger water
regular water and then purifying first dust particles are removed and then water is moving to the next pipe. In the
next pipe, next filter it is adding some minerals and then adding to the next pipe. From the next pipe it is storing
inside where do you call cans, water cans. So tell me this entire process uh
the water tank is a source in the middle first pipe water taking first stream
taking the water original water complete water filtering dust particles moving the filtered water to the next pipe the
next pipe is adding minerals and moving the pipe to the final destination into the uh what do you call cans. So this
entire process contain totally how many divisions? Three divisions. Number one source. Number two intermediate
operations. What the intermediate operation? Filtering and then what? Adding. Uh these two are what? Two
operations. First filtering connected to what? Adding minerals and final terminal operation. What the terminal operation?
Store in the one final final tank. Store in the final tank and further or
collecting into the cans. So store in the final tank or collecting to the tanks. This process is contained totally
how many levels in the real world water purification how we have the different levels. Same way our Java streams also
having different levels. First we have a tank source. Second middle operations are called uh intermediate operation.
And finally water you are collecting that is called what terminal. after collecting water further any
purifications further any operations you are doing on the water now directly you are consuming
so that is what no storage that is what the meaning of pipeline of computational operations computational operation
nothing but validations and calculations uh next functional nature an operation
on a stream produces a result doesn't modify its source that's what I told you
know streams meant for only retrieving the values or objects from the source
not meant for modifying the source. It is like a for each loop. For each loop can modify the data in the collection.
No, it will only take the existing values. For example, filtering a stream obtained from the collection produces a
new stream without the filtered elements rather than removing elements from the source collection. Okay. Laziness
seeking many stream operations such as filtering, mapping, duplicate, removal
uh can be implemented lazily exposing opportunities for the optimization. For
example, find the first string with three consecutive levels need not examine all the input strings. Stream
operations are divided into how many operations? Two. Number one intermediate
operations and number two terminal operations. Intermediate operations are
always ley and terminal operations are eager immediately will perform. The terminal operations are immediately
executed whereas intermediate operations are executed lazily. Okay. So remaining
points are not required. Stream can be obtained in a number of ways. This is what the point we are trying to
understand. Uh now finally what are the important point stream architecture I have just explained I will explain that
with the diagram also a stream is contained totally a stream object contain totally three things number one
source where we have the values number two intermediate operation taking the
values and process the data and generate a new result. This process will be
generated at one stage or multiple stages multiple stages that multiple stages is nothing but pipe piped pipe
will be there piped stream will be there and next fourth one is third one is what terminal operations tell me if I take
the source and call intermediate operations but terminal is not there
terminal operation I didn't call are these inter intermediate operations executed or not executed not executed
for example we have we have the tank and and
processing, filtering and adding minerals process already there.
No customer coming to my factory for collecting the water. Will I run them?
Will we run that filtering and adding minerals? I will not run. Will not run. It's there. Okay. That the process is
there. The setup is there. When the setup is executed only when the water
should be collected only when water should be collected then that time switch on then executed. When the switch
on and executed when a terminal operation required to execute as long as a terminal operation is not there
intermediate operations are not executed. Okay. Uh now tell me now next one is what here? Uh
when can we find the stream? When can we where can we find stream object
uh stream API sorry where can we find or you can say where stream API is available where stream API is available.
Okay, before that let me also write stream object structure.
Just now we completed stream object structure.
Now tell me a stream object contains
a stream object contains three parts. Number one, source.
Source is nothing but array or collection of elements.
Uh second intermediate
third terminal operations. Uh observe the diagram.
here. What is there array
or collection object?
Okay. Now connecting to this array object.
connecting to this array object. What I created one pipe is created.
Okay. Now the elements available in array are collection first came here.
Elements how many elements? All elements
I can write image diagram but uh that will be gone. That's why I'm writing there. Okay. Writing like a theory. All
elements are came into this file. Excuse. Then here we are applying
intermediate operations. This is stream object. First we obtain
what? Stream object. Stream object contain all elements.
Then on this stream object now we are applying
on this stream object we're applying what intermediate operation.
Then tell me now this intermediate operation will take all elements are
result objects are uh result elements
result elements. This is what intermediate operations.
How many intermediate operations I can apply? Multiple. This is first intermediate operation.
First intermediate operation. What? Filter. Again on this filtered again I'm
applying what? Second intermediate operation. Okay. on this again I'm applying second intermediate operation.
What the second intermediate operation is doing it is again applying some more
validations or calculations. Uh what we'll get now again result elements
again we'll get next result elements on this result elements finally we are what
are doing collecting. uh now from here I am taking into
destination. Okay. What are you doing here? I am finally applying here.
This result elements again processed for other result elements we and this result
final result elements what are we taking? We are collect
collecting result. Uh this is called intermediate operation
or terminal operation. Terminal operation.
Okay.
Look at here. First I have a source or collection array. The circle look from
the circle first we are apply what stream inside stream do you have elements?
No elements. If elements are not there how can we process into the pipe water
coming or not? For what purpose? Storing or processing? Uh so first from the
source first elements are available. Those elements are came into where now
stream object. Then on this stream object we apply what? Intermediate
operation. How many intermediate operations I can apply? Multiple 1 2 3 4
5 your wish. And number of intermediate operations we can apply. From every intermediate operation you will get a
new stream. Now from every intermediate operation you will get one new stream. This new stream
object contain all elements are processed elements are result elements.
So again repeat in the collection I have 100 objects are string integer double flow to okay
student employee 100 objects are there. All 100 objects are came to a stream object. On the stream object I have
applied filter. What filter? No I want only integer objects.
If filter under what if condition if obj dot sorry obj instance of integer then
only take the element into the stream object we have all 100 objects available in the collection on this stream object
dot I apply what filter then tell me into the new stream object again one
more new stream object is created into the new stream object how many elements will be there all elements of only
integers are only integer objects are there tell me only integer objects are
removed from the collection or not removed. Not removed. Tell me when you apply the filtering operation is the
tank water filtered or the water came into the stream filtered. Water came
into the stream filter not the tanker. Okay. So next step tell me here again what happened? One more stream is
created in that stream. How many objects are there? Only integer objects are there. You want all integers? No, I want
only even numbers. I want only even numbers. I want can I apply filter one more time? Yes. Again apply one more
time. One more time filter. Then inside this second stream object I have all
integers only. Then after applying the filter third stream object is created. In the third stream object how many
elements are there? All integers are only even inteious. Only even integers are there. And now I want to collect all
these even inteious. Then last we apply what? Terminal operation. So how many intermediate operation? How many sources
will be there? One. How many intermediate operation are applying? 0 to n number. I don't want any filtering
directly. I want to take the data. Then source stream terminal operation. Okay.
I want to take the values, apply the filter, apply the map, apply the reduce, apply the different operations. Then I
have apply zero to a number of intermediate operation. From every intermediate operation you will get the
new stream object with the result elements apply based on the mathematical function you apply. Okay. And then last
how many terminal operations we apply? One 0 to one compulsory one compulsory
one. If there is no terminal operation stream is waste. So if you don't collect the water why
this entire water filtering water streaming water water purifying entire setup is required or not required not
required. So compulsory one terminal operation whenever you touch a stream
what is compulsory terminal intermediate operation based on your project requirement you have to add zero to n
number. All people understand architecture uh if you want to understand stream simple water purifying
machine if you remember it's completed. Okay. Have you seen your water filter in
your house? Water filter water taking from the pipe giving to first filter. First filter
sending the water to second filter sending water to third filter. Finally it is coming out into your da uh that is
a stream. Okay. Then finally stream architecture
you understood. Okay. This is how many intermediate operations we can apply. Multiple intermediate operations we can
apply. Let me take this one also here.
Okay. So this is the story. We have array or
we have array or collection object. From the array collection object we are taking elements. On this element first
we apply stream object. On the stream object and then we started applying
intermediate operations. We can apply zero to n number of intermediate
operations. Okay. When I write program you will understand the structure down. The next
if you want to apply stream operations I need to know what is the class what is the interface what is the method where
stream API is available stream API is available stream API interfaces classes
and methods are provided in the package java.utilstream util stream in this package the main interf interface is
stream uh next means for creating stream object
and for performing the aggregate and performing different aggregate functions
aggregate operations on the stream of elements uh uh the required methods are
provided in this interface stream. Okay, then next point what you need to
understand sixth one. How can we create stream object? Look at here. What are the different ways we can create stream
object? Streams can be obtained. Look at the created or obtained.
You cannot create only you can obtain. So generally people say create uh I wanted to use the obtain
because you don't create a stream you will only obtain. So we can obtain a stream object in how can obtain stream
object. We can obtain stream object in different ways.
object. How many ways it is telling uh look at there from collection via
factory method call what stream or parallel stream from an array via arrays
dot stream of object array from static factory methods on the stream class such
as stream dot of int stream dot range stream dot iterate the lines of file can
be obtained from buffer reader lines I want read data from the file for reading
data from the file. You have to create buffer reader BR equal to new buffer reader of new file in file reader of
that. Lot of lengthy statements you can write and then after you have to call read line method first line read line
again second line read line again third time read line. So instead of calling multiple times you can also call what method lines method. Streams of file
parts can be obtained from the method in the files. Stream of random numbers can be obtained from the random. Numerous
other stream bearing okay different different API is there but among them we need to understand these three
sufficient okay we can obtain stream object several ways
among them okay four important
ways are number one okay stream is mainly given forward
collection programming That's why they have given collection first. Second sometimes also array third one okay
collection not there array not there just I wanted to learn stream functionality directly we can also
create stream object without array without collection okay and also from the file. So I want to order like this
I want to order like this first one uh from static factory methods on the
stream class. Okay. Such as stream dot of int stream
of int stream of range or stream dot
iterate object comma unary operator. Okay. So there are three ways we'll see the API
also. Second I want to take for you already understand array. So I want to take array as a second option as per our
learning process. And then third we are going to use collection.
And fourth from the
from the IO from the lines of a file can be obtained from what buffer reader dot
lines. And now let me conclude. I need to start
programming one by one with all these approaches because which approach in your project you will use nobody knows.
Okay. V number one stream. Number two, what is that? Badness.
Okay. So now how can we obtain stream of objects? Okay. in four
important ways are number one from static factory methods on stream class
such as stream of method instream dot range method I want int stream with a
range okay 1 to 10 1 to 10 values I want to create as a collection as a stream
object and I have to apply and stream dot iterate method also we can use uh then next one is what from an array yr I
have array object already on this array object you call what method stream. It will return stream object from a
collection via stream and parallel stream. Okay. Next one is what? Lines of method. What the lines of method? Uh
which is available in which class? Buffer reader class. Okay. So these are the approaches we need to understand one
by one slowly. Okay. Tell me. Okay. I obtain the stream object. After obtain
the stream object, then now we need to understand. I have to perform the intermediate operations. Uh uh what are
the what are the
what are the intermediate operations and next what you should know what are the terminal operations
what are the terminal operations now I don't want to type now I want to copy from previous material give me one it
I don't want to waste time now where it is available.
One second.
See here this is the notes I type in the previous batch that's what I am such a gajini person
what I taught in the previous batch next batch I never carry always I will try to go for new type a stream API is a
predefined library available from java 8 version in the package java stream a
stream is a flow of data or objects flow of data, flow of objects. A Java, a Java
8 stream API is used for retrieving objects from the collection and processing those objects with less code
by avoiding loops and conditions. With the stream API, we can write
concise code. Concise code means what? Less code or direct code by following
functional programming style with functional interfaces and lambda expression. The functional interface is
meant for defining method parameters and return types to retrieve and return logic directly to stream API for
retrieving and processing objects. A lambda expression and method references are meant implementing functional
interfaces and passing logic directly as argument without creating extra class and object. Okay, this is already you
know in addition to stream API in Java 8 version 43 predefined functional
interfaces are provided in the package java.lang lang function to use them with stream API. Among them important
functional interfaces are consumer supplier function predicate by consumer boolean supplier by function by
predicate unary operator binary operator. Examples of stream API methods those used in functional interface for
each method for each by consumer method filter predicate map function generate
supplier. How to obtain stream object? To obtain stream object on collection call dot stream call dot parall stream
sequence sequential stream and parallel stream on a stream object we can perform two types of operations. What is that?
Intermediate operations and terminal operation. The operations those process
objects in a collection and returns new stream object with the result objects are called what? Intermediate operation.
Once again what is the intermediate operation? The operations those process objects in collection collection not
only collection it may be array or IO stream whatever I uh the operation those
process objects in collection returns what new stream object with result
objects are called what intermediate operation uh I call filter method filter
method is a wide method or non-wide method come on come on filter method is a
intermediate operation it's a wider or non word non word what the return type stream who represent the sequence of
elements to flow stream as a filter method return type is what stream tell me in a um what do you call string
handling chapter you learn pipe method method chain calling calling one method with another method for example I call
string object str two uppercase dot replace contains ends with index of
remember so tell me two lower case method convert all characters available in the string to lower case in string
object or in the new string object uh tell me can I call two lower case method
is a intermediate method dot what I call index of double quotes remember uh tell
me index of method is can I consider as a what do you call terminal operations same thing applied here filter method
we'll go to collection how to call filter call dot filter when I call filter method filter method is a filter
returning the given condition elements available in the collection returns the new elements. New elements are returning
as a collection as a streamer as a string on that result stream. Can I apply the map? Yes. Map again returns
what? New mapped objects with a new stream object. That new stream object again we are calling what? Plat map. So
can I call these three methods with the with the dot dot dot dot? Yes. Stream
dot filter dot map dot filter flat map. Uh now finally flat map return the final
result. For final result what I want I want to take into my local variables. For that what I should call intermediate
operation or terminal operation? Terminal operation. The operation that is applied at end of the stream and
returns the result from this stream is called what? Terminal operation. For example for each for each for what?
Retrieving all elements. Next collect collecting all elements. Count counting how many final result is there? Max max
of all these stream elements min of all these stream elements. All these are called what? Inter terminal operations.
So on a stream object we can perform two types of operations. What is that? Intermediate operations and terminal
operations. Uh the next point this the oper sorry the intermediate operations are applied in between source and
terminal operation and we can apply multiple intermediate operations. Uh
next the stream object structure refers the attach diagram. Okay, the intermediate and terminal operations
methods are available in the interface stream and the package java. Stream package. What are the intermediate
operations? Okay, it has already given list of the methods. If you go to this uh API, where is this?
Uh if you go to this API here, if you go down, all the list of methods are
provided here. Lot of nodes is there.
Oh no. Uh here the classes
first inter interfaces. Do you have any interfaces here?
This package java.util and this package is what? Java.util dot then this one. Uh no classes under classes collectors
generators stream API interfaces. Uh look at these are the interfaces. What is that? Base
stream collector double stream. Okay. Uh next uh int stream long stream
stream.build. What interface I want? Stream. Click on this. Uh what is a stream?
Look at that. A sequence of elements supporting sequential and parallel
aggregate operation. The following example illustrate. Okay. And now go down. You'll find
uh methods all match. Tell me is it a intermediate operation or terminal operation?
Guess guess guess without having the clarity on intermediate and terminal operation code. You cannot understand
lambda expression first explain code and then theory. But stream API first theory then code
because it is not a language. It is a API. To understand API first you should
have a knowledge on its structure and its methods. Then only we can go uh tell me string handling chapter to understand
first you understand logic or methods are multi-threading also methods then only we go for logic stream API API API
means what predefined classes without understanding the class and its purpose. Methods and its purpose you cannot go
and write the code. So further first tell me finally we understand what stream is nothing but a pipe connection.
Okay. From source to destination. Between source to destination, what are the operations? We are performing two
operations. First intermediate and terminal. To perform intermediate terminal operation, we have to obtain
the stream object. How many ways we can obtain stream object? Four ways. By using stream class, factory method,
collection dot stream method and buffer reader dot
lines method. Four ways. Okay. I obtain the stream object. Stream object means what? collection of values or objects.
Uh it is meant for storing or holding holding for performing intermediate operations and generate the new new flow
of elements. Uh okay done in my hand source is there from the source I I collected all the elements in my stream
object. Now on the stream object now I want to perform intermediate operations or terminal operations.
For performing intermediate operations I should write logical. I should use the methods available in the stream class.
Stream is a class interface interface. Next, if you want to perform terminal operation also, we have to use methods
available in a stream interface. First of all, how can I identify this method is a intermediate operation or terminal
operation? You have to identify uh what is the meaning of intermediate operation. Intermediate operation method
takes the elements available in the stream, process it, generate the new result, new sequence of elements and
return as result return as a streamer.
Return as a stream. All match method return type is streamer
boolean. That means it is what method? Intermediate method or terminal method?
Terminal method. All match is a terminal method. Any match terminal builder
builder return type is what? Stream that means it is a intermediate or it is a
factory method for creating stream object. It is a factory method. It is not it is telling what I will build the
stream object. It is a building. Building means what? It is meant for creating one stream object. Collect
uh collector. collecting final result I am collecting what
next point if you don't like to talk I will go to the next point I will go and write the logic now what
do you want shall I write the logic you are not showing interest okay let me go directly to the code
how many times I should request you now I'm writing the code here
I don't have much time so you are arms sitting and watching Okay, I cannot do
now I'm creating stream. Stream of I want a stream of integers. Integer S1
equal to Can I write a new stream here? New stream. I cannot compile throw
error. Stream is interface. We cannot instantiate. Cannot instantiate type stream. I want obtain the stream object
with elements. For that we have uh what do I stream dot
Stream dot uh what method? Static method. Tell me inside interface can I
have static methods? From which version? Java 8. Stream is available from which
version? Java 8. So in Java 8 interface can contain stream method. What is the method? Look at there off. How many of
methods are there? How many of methods are there? Three methods are there. First one is of
second is of t dot dot dot. Remember of T. T is nothing but what? Lambda. Okay.
Which type T is applied? Sorry. Generic. Which T is applied here? What T? I have mentioned here integer. That integer is
coming. Then another parameter is integer. Then second one what? Integer
is applied and T place what is coming? Integer dot dot dot means what I told
where are where means zero to a number. Uh next off nullable also you can pass.
Okay. This off nullable not required. And now finally tell me if I use a first off method stream contain how many
elements? One element. So you cannot create empty stream at least we must
have one element. Uh can I create a stream with multiple elements? Yes. Further which method I have to call off.
Call of method stream do of what I should write here? Elements. How many elements? Multiple. And now I'm writing
here two comma with a comma separator 3 comma 4a 5a 6 comma 7
okay this is my stream object now if I print stream object what will come good
will come class name at the red h d h d h d h d h d h d h d h d h d h dashboard will come javastream dot reference piped line
dollar header at the rate tell me now is it a outer class or inner Class
referenced pipeline is a outer class. Dollar header inner class. What object
you creating? Stream. Stream is a class interface. Interface for interface
object means interface object. Interface implementation class object. Implementation class object. This off
method implicitly implementing the stream with a another class called what?
Head. So how the internal code will be there? class header implements stream
and all the methods available in the stream class implemented in the class called what header. This header class is
created inside which class reference pipeline. This is the outer class. Why the name is pipeline? Pipeline is not
stream I told you stream is a kind of pipe connection and one pipe is connected to another type pipeline. Uh
now my target is not printing the stream object. If you want to print printer but
my target is not printing stream object. I want to collect the elements available in the stream and print on the console.
How can I collect? S1 dot uh I have a method called what? For each observe now
for each method parameter is what? What is the for each parameter? Consumer. Uh consumer is a
uh what is a consumer? Functional interface. Consumer is a functional interface. Tell me a functional
interface can be implemented in three ways. Number one outer class anonymous
inner class lambda expression method reference I want implement with lambda anonymous inner class how to write
anonymous inner class new consumer tell me you have to store anonymous inner
class you have to pass anonymous class as argument argument for each of parenthesis inside the parenthesis
directly you write new consumer of new consumer of t which type of elements you
want to consume integer Integer you have to write here following by you have to implement the method.
What the method consumer contain a method called what? Accept. Consumer if you want to consume first you have to
accept into your hand in a consume of accept method you have to implement inside this accept method what is
happening understand the flow. If you understand anonymous inner class then understanding lambda expression is easy.
It's very very very confusion topic. Focus for each method internally contain the
loop. For each method internally contains the loop. Now it will go to this stream object. I want write here
full name stream one
uh stream one. What it is doing? I am consuming elements. What I have to do
for each method internally contains a loop. It will go to the stream object
takes the first element and passes as argument to consumer accept method
parameter t. Inside this method we have to write logic for consuming that
element. How to consume the element? I just want to print it. What am I doing? Consuming
the element for what purpose? For printing.
Consuming for print. Save it. Control F1. The error is coming with
look at that. All elements are coming or not. For each loop taking first element giving to our method, our method
printed. Again loop iterator. For each method taking string second element giving to our method, our method printed. Okay. Uh now tell me what the
logic you write for printing. This is the logic. Now very very very important.
Once you consume the stream of elements, can I reuse the stream?
Can I reuse the stream? Is a stream reusable or not? Let's see now. I am
calling stream one dot stream one dot
I'm calling uh I'm calling another method called max
okay stream one let me write again for each loop only for each of I am writing
uh can you help me can I write this lambda sorry can I write this anonymous inner class as a lambda expression
implementation yes or no how can I write I can avoid this entire class method up to here
integer t can I write what here arrow and remove this extra bracket
now look at this is it compile or not what is this it is a lambda expression
whenever you're writing lambda expression that type required to write not required not required when I write
only one parameter parenthesis required or not required when I write only one statement body required or not required
uh now parenthesis
So that anonymous inner class entire code is become what? Single name. Okay. Now tell me here in place of T. Can I
write E parameter name is my wish. I can choose
any name. I want to take it as what? Element. Here also I want to take it as T plus word element. Okay. Or you can
take I your wish. Tell me here for each how it is working here also working same
what is happening for each method taking the first element from the stream and
then passing as argument to element that element is giving to this s and it is
printing on the console 2 3 4 5 what are the elements available all elements are
printed Second m
look at there I got exception. What is exception? Illegal state exception.
Stream closed. So how many times I can use one stream?
stream already has been operated upon or closed. So one stream I can use only one
time. That means once you apply terminal operation you cannot use a stream for
other terminal means completed. Then what I have to do I must create stream
object one more time. Uh now this is close. This is exception.
Stream closed. Now what to do? I have to create stream
one more time. Uh now tell me this is processing stream with
anonymous in class. Now I want to process stream
lambda expression. Help me how to write lambda expression. same code in place of stream two I have to write
what is the important point you have to remember once use a stream you cannot use it stream is not reusable it is a
one time usable once you apply terminal operation the stream processing is completed again you have to start the
process one more now look at there 2 3 4 5 6 7 coming now next tell me can I
process the stream by using method reference. Uh what you write here? You
are just taking the element and printing doing nothing. In that place I can remove this parameter. In place of dot I
can write double colon and remove this element. Confl. Now look at that what I got.
Control F1. Uh look at that. I'm getting elements 2 3 4 5 6 7 Okay, instead of
printing uh okay done so hope you all understand now how to create the stream
object uh I can create stream object by using first approach what is that of method and then after creating stream
object I just want to retrieve the element here processing streamer retrieving
streamer retrieving okay this is creating
stream object with elements.
Uh, next here retrieving elements
from stream with anonymous inner class.
Anonymous in our class. Uh, next stream is not reusable.
Once terminal operation is applied
it is closed and further cannot be used. It leads to
whatever exception.
Now what I should do? We must create stream object again.
Uh now retrieving
elements from stream by using lambda expression.
retrieving elements from stream by using method reference. Okay. So first what
you understand two operations. Number one,
first we are learning here creating stream uh I can say
obtaining stream object and applying terminal operation.
Okay. Obtaining stream object and applying terminal operation. Now tell I
want here apply uh first I want
obtaining second obtaining
stream object and
on array and applying
terminal operation. Will you help me?
How to create array object? Int array I equal to same story. I am taking same
values here. What you write lower bracket semicolon write values.
Now this is intel. On this in array I wanted to get the values. What statement
I should write now? Erase dot. What are the method name? Stream there is a
predefined method call stream of which array you want to pass in array I then
what it is doing it is returning stream object to us which stream int stream you
can you can take stream or you can take what int stream if you take stream
uh what I write here integer
Okay, it is not accepting because it's implicitly taken as in stream. Okay, int
stream only we can take uh in stream stream equal to arrays dotst stream of I then what I should write now here uh
stream dot I stream dot or you can say stream for a
stream for dot uh help me what code I have to write stream for dot uh what I
call what the method I have to call for each of what I should pass here
system dot out. Len
system
dot out double colon print.
Can I write like this? What I have done here? First I obtain
stream object on array. This is stream object on array. And here retrieving
elements from stream by using
for each and
for each and method reference
control F. Look at that values are coming now. uh now let me write one
for your notice purpose I'm writing
look at that after dash values have come and now I want the obtain stream object
on array object now I want to obtain stream
object on what collection
and applying terminal operation tell me in place of here what I should write
array list array list of uh what you
write now integers equal to if you want to get array list object you can also write shortcut like
this uh list dot of what the name list dot of
like stream dot of list dot off also you can write and then equal equal to this
is what list okay now I want to get elements now stream object on list what
I should write list dot stream uh now just you call stream method that's it and then here what I have to take stream
of integers integer stream five equal to list dot
stream object on what now collection now stream five dot for each method same
logic for each of system.out.print retrieving elements from stream by using
for each and method reference. Look at that all elements are again
coming. And now here what I have done I have created the diagram is first I have
collection of array or
this is array or
collection on this object by using the method call word
stream we have obtained one more object object. What this object
stream object here what the values available? 2 3 4 5
6 7. All these values are moved and stored inside the stream object. 2 3 4 5
6 7. Uh now on this object we have we have
applied what? For each method. What is for each method? Is it a terminal
operation or is a intermediate operation? Terminal operation. It will go to the stream, retrieve and give the
values to us as out. Okay. So we have we have we have used
any intermediate operation here. No only we applied number one source number two
terminal operation. That's it. There is no intermediate operation. So this together this together is called what?
Source. This is a source. Of course up to stream we can call it as what? Source. Obtaining stream also comes
under what? Source. So first source and then next what you applied termin.
Okay. And finally we got what? Out. And then you have a tank from the tank
directly water you are taking into your cans. And now I want to apply filter ready. So now here I want to take third
operation. What are you doing?
Okay, the next process I'm trying to use first
obtaining stream second
first obtain stream apply
terminal sorry apply intermediate
operations and then third apply terminal operations. Now first
I'm taking this list again list equal to okay or else already we
have list I need stream object stream stream 6 equal to what I'm writing here
list dot stream what the first step here obtain
stream object can I Say it is a source or not. Yes. Uh second stop word apply
terminal operation in this stream I have all elements. I don't want all elements.
I want only even numbers. I want stream dot tell me even numbers. Technically
called word I want I have lot of water in that water. I want only water. I
don't want dust particles. What are you doing now? Filtering. Stopping unnecessary things is called what?
Filtering. For that we have a method called what? Filter. Uh look at the filter parameter is what?
Filter parameter. Predicate. Predicate is a functional interface. Then can I
implement this predicate functional interface by using lambda expression. Next. This lambda expression should
return boolean value. Predicate functional interface is a boolean functional interface. It should return
value. Filter method again contains inside the loop. It will go to stream
six. Take the first element give it to us. Okay. Take the first element give to
us parameter. Now I have to verify condition. I should write element instance of what? Integer.
Okay. Element instance of integer. Uh what is the meaning of it? Tell me. stream six dot stream six and I want all
elements available in the list 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Okay then dot filter filter method
taking first element two given to whom now element now on that element we applied what instance of condition now
inside element what is there two two instance of integer yes or no yes and
what it returning true filter method taking the result from there what true means adder not adder
Come on. Add then filter method. What it is doing? It is removing the element
from the collection. Creating new stream object. Create a new stream object. Uh tell me what is the diagram here. First
list is there with what? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
also. Let me take I'm taking here comma 8. And now here we
have these are the elements. What is this? It is a collection. Uh now on this collection what I done
dot stream method I call when I call stream method all elements are moving from there into which object stream
object. Uh these two together we can call what
as what? Source. Uh source is obtained in this. How many elements are there? All elements 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 All elements available on this stream object. Now I am applying dot
what is the method? Filter. I apply what filter. Then tell me on
this filter method again what happened? Whenever you apply filter one more
channel is created, one more pipe connection is created. From this pipe connection, first value came two.
From this from the stream, first value two came. The two is now should go into
the next streamer. Should not go to the next streamer depending by whom? Now filter condition. What condition given?
Element two instance of integer. Yes. Then go. Next coming value what? Three.
Three instance of integer. Yes. Go. Hey, all values are coming. 1
minute. I should write here
E mod 2 equal to equal to zero. I should
not write instance or wrong condition. I have written.
Uh no element mod 2 equal equal to 0 2 mod 2 0 yes go then three 3 mod 2 0 no
eliminate don't what is doing don't next taking one x
value what four four mod 2 four is applied every value applied on this condition four mod 2 equal equal to zero
yes go uh next next value coming what five mod 2 equal equal to No. Remove.
Next. 6. 6 mod 2 equal equal to 0. Yes. Go. Next. Seven. 7. 7 2= 0. No. Uh. Then
eliminate. Then 8. 8 mod 0 0. Yes. Go. Then tell me this filter method
intermediate operation. Take all values available in the stream. Apply the filter condition. Whichever pass this
condition that value allowed to flow next level. Understand? Stream is used
for applying different aggregate functions. Generate the result of stream
and flow the data to the next level. Next level what values you get? 2 4 68. Now tell me I want to take these values
and then this is this is what it is what intermediate operation and
then after this you want to do any further level filters or any other things. No. Then next on this result
tree we are applying what? For each for each is terminal operation. For each is terminal
operation. What it is doing? Again it is collecting all values and printing. It
is taking all values available and giving us what output. Tell me further close connection open connection close
completed close all values are taking here and printing. So totally how many
operations we return here? Uh next tell me here I have to store the stream object assigned to stream of filter on
this filter stream on this filtered stream what I write
filter dot for each of what I write system do.out out double colon print ln
double colon print ln control f11 look at that all values are coming up only even numbers coming up
system dot outer print ln control f11 and look at that 2 4 6 8 only even
numbers we got everyone understand the stream now first what I have to tell I should obtain the stream object next
intermediate obtain stream then intermediate
operations And then third what is that
terminal operation. So finally very important point whenever you are working with a stream first you have to take
source next you have to take intermediate and then what terminal. Now the next point. Tomorrow class is at
tomorrow class time 7:30.
Tomorrow class time is 7:30 a.m. and class is online.
Topic is collection
7:30 to 9 collection introduction will be taken
complete only introduction it will take 1 and a half hour next 9 to 9:30 t break
9:30 to 11:30 we are going to see
list implemented classes. How to store different values? You already know arena
how to store values in array. Uh like array we have list implemented classes.
Four classes are there. How to store values in vector? How to store values in
array list? How to store values in link list? How to store values in stack. So
these are the four collections we are going to learn. So tomorrow we have two sessions 7:30 to 9 and 9:30 to 11:30 and
then by the tomorrow class completed you will get full clarity on collection program. What is collection? Why
collection? Collections are nothing but what data structures and algorithms DSA.
So tomorrow we are learning collect Java based data structures. Java based DSA in
C language you learn only C language. But if you want to learn C language data
structure and algorithm you have to join separate course by paying 3,000 rupees.
But in Java you have wonderful advantage. You no need to join DSA separately. We will only teach DSA as
part of but DSA we don't teach you from the zero level because in Java DSA
already implemented only you have to learn theory and then how to use program
for use. So theory means what the what is a vector, what is a array list, how
the elements are stored in vector, how the elements are stored in array list, what is link list, how the elements are
stored in link list, what is a stack, how the elements are stored in stack. So this is what we are going to learn in
tomorrow class. Okay, tomorrow just we need to you need to uh what do you call
patiently listen the class only for maximum next 8 days Sunday to Sunday.
Okay. Sunday to Sunday 8 days or 9 days just 9 days you have to pay patiency so
that our batch will be completed. So this Sunday we are going to have the class. So last Sunday if I have taken
class by 20th as per our plan course will be completed because last Sunday I
didn't take so it is extended. Understand my point? Uh if you say I'm
going fast I'm taking more time. Okay I have two options. If you don't want to come Sunday classes then I will teach
only the next onee classes. Whatever the syllabus I can cover I cover cover as part of core java. You want only up to
core java syllabus. Okay. Sunday classes are not required. You want extra knowledge complete depth knowledge then
extra Sunday classes extra 8 hours class is required. Uh you can take 8 hours extra class as a regular classes. If you
take extra 8 hours classes regular students are already giving complaint already. People are complaining the
management are asking when batch completed when batch completed. That's why I cannot go more days. So it's the
time you have to support me to complete the syllabus with the full syllabus. Clear my point? So tomorrow class timing
is 7:30. Now I want to create one more collection here. Help me to write list
of list of object. I am creating list of
object list of object list two equal to uh I
have to write list dot what are the method for creating collection of of uh
here I'm giving first element five second element a third element six
fourth element bifth element Seven
sixth element six. Okay. Totally how many elements are there? Six elements. Now I want you
retrieve the elements available in this collection by using stream API. How to write the code? Tell me.
Uh first I should write list dot stream. List
tell me this list dot stream. This line is returning one stream object with all
elements available in the listener. You want to store a you want to process
process then why are you storing here in the stream six
is it a right design coder wrong design coder compile time is right runtime wise
right but less performance why once you apply filter method on a stream fixer
can I use that stream further no stream is reusable or not reusable not reusable when is not reusable why you are storing
in the variable uh what suggesting by and micro system don't store the stream in a variable
directly apply intermediate operation uh I don't want all elements available in
the list okay directly print first print for each method what I system dot
system dot out double colon what I print ln control f1 uh look at there all
elements are coming I list two I have auto control F1 look at it all elements
5 A 6 B 7 C all values are coming now uh I don't want all values listen next what
sun micro system suggesting don't write the method chaining in a one line so
readability is very difficult where started stream where started for each that's why every dot take to the next
line every dot take to the next line what you have done here obtain string Stream
stream object means all elements. Uh then next what you obtain here terminal
operation. Terminal operation. Okay. Uh then next
point I don't want all values in between
what rate dot uh what I should apply filter. U filter is a predicate. Filter
giving first element to you. On this element you apply one condition. What
condition? Element instance of instance of element instance of string.
Element instance of string. Then take tell me now this filter method
is terinal operation or intermediate operation. Intermediate operation. Intermediate operation means it is
giving the result or not. Intermediate operation. Now come on
explain this diagram. What happened here? This is your collection. Collection contains what values? Two.
Sorry. 5 A 6 B 7 C. Okay. On this collection we
obtained what? Stream object. What contain? 5 a 6 B 7 C this is a list and
this is what stream uh on this stream object again I have applied one
intermediate operation what a filter filter method will take every element
available apply the condition and generates what new stream so what is a
stream a stream is a flow of data what the use of stream is used for processing
data by applying Intermediate operation. It is like a piper. It takes the data
apply the one one one condition and then filter the data generate what? New
stream object. Every time it creates what? Another stream object. The stream object contain all values of no because
it is applying what? Filter. What the filter? If it is a string then only
come. Five string? No. A string? Yes. Six string? No. B string? Yes. Seven
string? No. C stream. Yes. Uh tell me now after filter the stream object
contain only what elements? ABC. Uh now tell me now further you want to apply
what here? Dot uh dot for each. Dot for
each. For each is a filter operation or terminal operation. Terminal that means further is it creating any new stream
object? No. It is completed. All elements are coming and stored here. From there what are you doing? Printing.
Are we understand the stream flow of execution architecture diagram? If you understand this diagram, stream is easy
to write the code. Uh next, next next. I don't want string objects in less lower
case. I want in upper case. I want in upper case. Further we have
one more method called map. Map is what? This is a value instead of this another
value I want. Okay. uh core Java core Java core Java faculty core Java faculty
is a key. This key is mapped to whom? HK. Wherever Core Java faculty who will
come? HK will come. Wherever Oracle faculty that faculty name will come. Wherever advanced Java faculty advanc
faculty name will come. So core Java is the key. In place of this key who has to
come Java faculty will come. Harrishna will come up. Harrishna will come. That is called map. Alternative value map of
uh tell me now map parameter should be consumer supplier uh predicate function
map should perform some intermediate operation means it has to take lambda expression to take lambda expression I
need one functional interface which functional interface what should do map should take input and return result what
result boolean value or some other value some other. So that means what is it?
Input is there. Output also there. Input output. Functional interface name is what? Function. Look at there. It is
having what? Function. Uh now here element is taken in place of element.
What you want to return? Element type cast to string. Why? Because list of what is there? Object. Already you have
filtered strings here. Now then element uh what is that? string type cast to
element type cast to string dot you want to convert all the strings to what uppercase two upper case method you call
uh observe what happened here it is also intermediate
again it is also intermediate operation intermediate operation uh tell me what is happening here filter method is used
for apply the predicate condition and stop the sum of the elements the
elements which are matched to this condition with that elements new stream object is created. Then on the new
stream object again we apply what map. What the functionality of the map? Map is meant for returning the new value for
the given element. What the element is given small a small a is coming as string type and then return as what
upper case. Look at there element arrow. Observe did I write any s and anything?
No. I call here condition. Cond condition. If I write directly, what is their background? Return
lambda expression. If I write one expression directly, if I write a variable directly, if I write a value
directly, if I write a method call directly, what is doing? Printing or returning? Returning. Returning
background return keyword is there. Uh now actually it is a full form is what? Open bracket. What you write here?
Return. Return closed bracket. This is what actually you have to write full form.
Okay. Then when I write like this what happen? Element is coming into this element instance of string. Yes. Then
return result what? True. Return true to whom? Filter method. Who is calling your
condition? Filter. It is return to filter method. Filter method. Storing that value in a new stream object.
Observe. Now this program directly I want to write here. Same code will come here also. What is
that? Arrow and then semicolon open bracket.
One time if you practice at home today it is easy. A diagram is what? First here what happened? Stream object is
created with all elements. 5 A 6
6 B 7 C. This is stream.
Now on this stream what is applied? Filter and it creating what? Another
stream object. What is the condition you apply? Uh now filter method what is taking
first? Five. Five is given five instance of string false. False means stored or
not stored. Next what a a instance of string true. True given to filter filter
method now storing that A and then six no B and then seven no C. Okay. Now now
this stream object we are giving to map. Now the map is apply on second stream
and returns what? New stream object. It's like a string handling chapter. Now
whenever you call a method on a string object, what happen? New object is created with the result map of element
taking what? First element A. A is given to two upper case. Two upper case return
to what? Double quotes. A double quotes given to return keyword. Return keyword given to map. Map is storing capital A
here. Next. Now map is taking second element B
given to here upper case capital B stored capital C store and then for each
method applying on first stream of second stream of third stream third stream once the first stream completed
is destroyed and the water moved from first pipe to second pipe in the first pipe water is there or not there not
there second pipe move to third pipe gone now the result pipe is what last pipe from the last pipe for each method
taking the values and printing A B Control
F
one more bracket right there. Now look at there what is coming capital
A understand? Tell me when you are writing written keyword this become I
mean clumsy code. So I'm removing this only directly condition if I write this is the experiency people write input. So
initially the syntaxes are little difficult but once you practice it will be easy for you. So I have shown you
stream object how to obtain on collection how to apply the intermediate operations and how to obtain what
terminal operation. So will you work out on this this example if you work then uh
stream a will become very easy for you to work for the collections program?
No you have used what here shanker what is the list of type string
type object type object then element is what object here also object. So you
have to convert it to the string type casting otherwise compiler through error.
Okay. Now I will share these notes and also the notes what I have shown you
here. Two notes I will upload. Okay. Then Alamas Khan asked upload
notes. I'm not uploading. Search in the Google. Okay. Now I'm not uploading. Sorry.
Thank you. Almost check in the Google and upload. Remaining people please
follow please go and ask him okay so his name is what Alamos Khan okay uh he will
search the material Google prepare the notes prepare the program and he will upload to you thank you that's all for
today

