ript


Okay guys, all people are back.
Okay, let us start [Music]
now. What are the problems of array? array has five problems.
To solve these five problems, Sun Microsystem has provided classes for us.
Okay. Now my question is let us understand one one problem and find how
to write code by ourself. Assume that Sun has not given collections API.
Sun has given collection API but assume it's not given. Then how can we solve the problem? So the first problem of
array is type problem.
Let us analyze type problem. How to solve this type of problem? Let us analyze. I have intal of three. I
created one array with how many locations? Three locations. Then how many values I can store here? Three
values I can store. Now int of 0 equal to 10.
All 1 = 20 2 = true not.
Why? Because I A2 is a variable of int type cannot store boolean.
I A2 is a variable of type int cannot store double. I A2 is a variable of type
in can store cap. Now my question is I want to store all primitive data type
values then which type of array I have to create
understand my question again I'm want to all types of primitive values then what
type of error I have to
I'm not asking class generic keys class. I'm asking array. How can you create
array with generic type? I'm not asking I want to store all types
of objects. I'm asking all types of primitive values.
Double
double is the highest range data type of all types. Huh?
Uh, now tell me when you want to store all primitive
values what I required double. Tell me array type problem.
Array type problem. You creating a by default array has a problem.
Everybody say that array type problem. Array type problem. Really array doesn't have type problem. You create you want
int type after that you want to store double time. That is the wrong thought. Now you want to store in that's why you
created in but later it doesn't accept double type value doesn't accept boolean
type value. You want to drink one liter water then you buy one liter bottle and
later complain this one liter bottle you can store only one lit water based bottle and
you are design wrong you want two lit then buy two lit so I create a double array then inside
double array I can store in long double cap but not boolean and string because
they're different now let us try to understand from reference data type only
studental new student here. Nine student objects created and nine student type
variables created in this line.
Nine student objects nine student type variables.
Uh nine student I variables are clear. Then can I store student object?
Yes. Again student object? Yes. Can I store faculty object in student variable? No. Can I store admin object
in student variable? No. Now what should I do to store either student or faculty
or admin? Any of the three objects I want to store. What should I do?
I want to store any of the three objects. Then
I should create array of what type?
Sakshi super type. Excellent. That is the answer I expect. Super. Who is the super type of student, faculty, admin?
person. See you have to create person class array. Now if I create person
class array can I store student object, faculty object, admin object? Yes. Can I
store line and bike object? No. Uh now tell me with this discussion you
have to realize is array really contain type problem of we creating a we create
you want to store student then create a student why you're asking faculty admin not story okay now so if you want
for example in Java we have super class and subasses when I create line array
only line objects we can create tiger array only tiger objects I can create If you want to store all four types of
object, you have to create what? Animal type array. All types of animals are stored.
Everyone understand?
Now tell me if you want to store either animal type objects, person type
objects, vehicle type objects, any type of object you want to store then which type of I have to create
super class of all types. Who is a super class of all classes?
Object class. If I create a object class array, I can store student objects,
animal objects, vehicle objects, all types of objects I can
so all people understand now. Now tell me in your project you don't
know what type of object to store then what you have to do
you must create array of object type.
Then tell me what are the problems of array. It accepts only homogeneous
objects. You want heterogeneous then create object to solve the first problem. Do I need
collection class? Not
now. Can you solve the size problem automatically?
I created object array with seven. I created object array with five. Five
elements. I create then how many objects I can store background? Five. Five
variables created of type object with the default value. Then object array 0 1
2 3 4. Five objects I store. Can I store sixth
object? No. First string object created with a 10
and store string object string object 30 string object string object 55
then I'm trying to store sixth object stored or not store
not we will get array index out of exception so by using object array we
can store different type of objects
But we cannot store growable size array. Correct? Tell me now. Collection class
is given to solve the type problem of arena. Size problem of
size problem inside collection class. Which type of array is created?
int arena, double arena, student arena, person arena, object
object collection is meant for storing multiple objects of same type or different type.
So to store multiple objects of different type, we should use object array. So inside collection class,
object array is create. Okay.
Okay. But collection class Y extra class to solve the size problem. Let us try to
understand how to solve the size problem. To solve size problem, we have to write some code. The code is called
algorithm. Whenever writing sequence of statement to solve a one particular problem, then this code is technically
called algorithm. Okay. Now you are writing a sequence of
statements to solve one particular reoccurring problem. This problem is coming again and again. That reoccurring
problem written code is technically called what? Algorithm. Okay. Now I am designing one algorithm. This algorithm
is trying to solve the problem of array size. Array size problem solve. This
algorithm is called growable array algorithm. What is called growable array
algorithm? Because it is growing the arrays. How?
Tell me I'm taking one water bottle.
This water bottle size is one liter or half liter. This is half liter
bottle. Okay. Today Sunday I decided to go to playground.
Then I taken half lit water. Now what if fill this water bottle? I started going.
Okay. Now,
now Satendra Singh, concentrate on the class, not on the people comments.
Shall I remove you from the class? I think your target is different.
I removed him here. Focus on class. Don't focus on if in class also in chat
window also you are searching for the girls and you are such a people
rude and rude also searching for the girls in the class also searching for the girls. You can't really make the
people to leave.
Let them live by happy. Let them freely at least in the classroom let them
freely talk. Here also if you are targeting then
how to compare you people with Roma. Don't understand.
Day by day people have become such a nasty minded people
lifelong you know like making the people attracting only making people impressing
only can't you focus on your life
you have beautiful life there wonderful life is If you focus while studying, if you
focus on girls and boys, then your lifelong will be become a beggar.
This is the time you have to settle your life. Only focus on your career. Only look at your career. Don't look at other
people. Now, what is this
half lit bottle? uh now in my room I have my friends also
there actually yesterday night we decided to go to playground to play cricket
that is our habit every Sunday we want to chill we don't want you know because
complete one week we are working hard in the office or in the school or college so Sunday means full playground so we
decided early morning I wake up okay when I wake up and ready to go I asked
my friends are you ready to come they said yesterday hangout problem they said no I cannot
so I took only half liter bottle started but my friends are very you know have
concern on me okay because I'll kill them so they also want to care me
one of my friend told her okay wait and they thought of no I will not go but I
decided to go so he cannot leave me alone so he said okay wait I'll also
come this off later bottle sufficient for both.
What will I do?
Uh I will take another big bottle. One liter bottle.
Another bottle. One liter big bottle. I'll do next. What will I do?
Will I waste this water? No. I will move this water from that
bottle to this bottle. But it can fill only half level.
Remaining half I'll fill from the tab.
understand when I'm explaining this example are you
focusing only on my friends who bought are you able to connect this example
with this
uh now tell me how many friends are there in my room three
we together going now the third friend also got out from the hangover problem and he said wait I will also come
what to do then I smile
I know you'll come because I always control my friends
I'll take another big bottle
what we'll do I'll move one lit water from this bottle to this bottle
what I'm doing Copy and then this is one letter filled.
Remaining half letter filling from where 10.
First copy then store. First what I did? Store.
When this bottle filled I want more water. Then what I did?
Copy. Then store. I want more water again. Water deal copy then store and
tell me first my hand is holding which bottle off later then cut this reference now
I'm holding what second bottle cut this reference and then holding what third
reference same hand different hand same hand tell me now in this example
this is real life example okay my life example
But my life example is suitable for collection to understand. This is growable array.
Uh this my hand is nothing but reference variable. OBJ
obj variable first holding one array with how many elements? Five elements.
Okay. I want more elements. Can it hold more than five? No. Then what will you
do?
What will you do? Uh first stop create a new array
with more capacity.
Right. Second point.
Uh, second point. Copy.
Copy elements from old array to new array.
Third point. After copying water from old bottle to
new bottle, my hand should hold old bottle. New bottle.
Uh assign new array reference to
old reference variable. These three steps
logic is called growable. Okay. Yeah
sir you are talking very slowly sir daily you are talking very fast today you are talking very slowly why
currently I'm suffering from fever no energy to talk
okay and I hope you can also see my voice
yesterday only might be you have observed yesterday also mild fever was there but still I came to the class
that's why yesterday I didn't allow anybody come nearer to me to ask doubts
so I think climate is changing now from summer to training season
so little will get affected so please adjust with the voice okay
someone sent a message in the chat asking why Today slowly talking sir that's the reason okay
now tell me now is the point clear what is the growable array algorithm in
growable array algorithm how many steps we have to do three steps new array
create new array with more capacity copy elements of old array to new array and
then move the elements sorry assign the new array reference to old array
reference And then fourth step what you have to do store new element
store new element. So these are the four steps. Observe now what I have to do now
to store this f. Now I have to create new array object.
Then copy references from old array to new array.
Okay. Copy references from old array to new array. then pointing to the same
objects reference when copy both reference variables are pointing to same object.
Then now first logic creating new same line we have to write with more
capacity. Then next for loop for copying the elements from old array to new then a
copy this for loop is array copy logic for i equal z i less than obj.length
length what the length five I ++ tempo OBJ of I equal to OBJ of I tempo OBJ is
nothing but this new array I want to copy I location to I location next I
location to I location 0 to 0 1 to 1 22 like first one create new array second
one copy elements third reference is what replace OBJ internal reference to
new reference point fourth The ter
copy the new store the new
everyone understand
uh totally how many objects I can store in this new array
10. Now if you want to store 11th
you want to store 11 uh again you have to repeat the same process.
Now how many 20 if you want to store 21 again repeat the
same process. Tell me if you want to execute same logic again and again.
You should write logic again and again or you should write logic one time and reuse again and again.
If you want write logic one time reuse, you have to develop a method now
where you can create method inside a class. Tell me this entire logic you must
develop in one class. The class that contain
object array for storing objects by solving the size and type problem that
class is called what? Collection class. A class that contain
variables for storing student data is called student class. A class that
contain variables for storing employee data is called employee class. Similarly, a class that contain object
array for storing objects without size limitation is called what? Collection.
And now collection follows which algorithm to solve size problem? Growable array algorithm.
Can you read this diagram?
All five points understood.
tell me working with collection is nothing but working with array.
If you directly use a square bracket that is array. If you use the method calls that is collection and simple
look at this code I don't explain anything this is the theory and this is
the diagram program uh check in check here can you understand it
you only this is diagram first read first line create a class with object
object with required capacity create a class. I'm choosing the name of the class as an id collection
open bracket closed bracket with object array with a capacity 10.
Step number one. Step number develop a method to store elements in this array.
Tell me when you create a class with object array will you provide direct access to that array to the outside
world? No. we'll declare it as a private and provide via access via method only.
Now then that method should be a
parameterized method because it won't initialize the class level field.
Uh the method name I'm taking as add this add method meant for what taking
one object to store inside object array. So parameter is what object. Tell me if
you provide direct access to this object array how can I store obj of zero equal
to double quotes array. Correct? Uh if you provide access to
this method via method what you write add of double quotes. Now this double quotes sorry is going as argument to
object OBJ. Then we assign the parameter to obj of index. index is nothing but
zero. Clear my point
student class as SNO variable to initialize what you have written. Set sn get sn
equal to sn and hear me why chart chart is option
stop
keep respond rate if is silent then I don't know whether
you are listening or
This is the code. You created a collection. What is your target? You want to solve the size
problem of array. To solve the size problem, what I have to do? I must create a class. Which array size you
want to solve? Object array size. So create object array with 10 locations.
In these 10 locations, I have to store 10 elements. I should store 10 elements directly. Now if I provide this array
access to the main method main method developer if he access directly he will start storing
collection object dot obj of 0 = 1= 2= 3
equal to again we will get array index out of bounds exceptional
uh should I provide direct access method. If I provide access via method, I can
write logic to solve that array index out of bounds exception problem
as according to encapsulation. I have to declare it as a private and provide
access via method. Now tell me if you direct access provided what he will
write? He will write OBJ of zero. OBJ A
of object array OBJ A of equal to double quotes sorry he will write isn't it?
Uh if you provide direct access there is a chance we'll get array index outer wants exception. How to solve this
problem? First you don't provide direct access. Provide access via method.
Method means what you write add of double quotes. So what is the difference
between array based programming collection based programming
in array based programming we will directly access the locations and store
then there is a chance we'll get array index out of bounds exception in collection programming also background
we are using array only but we don't access directly we will access via
method whatever you want to give to the assignment operator method that value
you give as a argument to the method. Then what this method will do? This method internally
store given value in array only.
How uh what is the name of this array? OBJ A of index equal to OBJ. Uh here we
return directly zero. But inside the method will write directly zero here. No. If I directly zero always the given
first value, second value, third value, fourth value, fifth value, every value will store inside zero. You want zero.
Now every time increase the number first value in zero, second value one, third value, right?
Every time you will store here always zero. No. Uh when you call first time
add method, index number should be zero. When I call add method, second time index value one. Third time index value
two. So fourth time index value three every time it should increase. For that I have taken one variable called index
with value what zero. So first index value zero. Then after storing first
object then increase the index number. Uh now tell me when you call add method second time control come to with the
second object index value is one. Then the second object stored in the one
increase by two. Again add me another call like this. I call add method for 10 times.
When I call add method 10 times, what is the index number? 10. Now I'm calling
add of hurry at 11th time. Assume that I'm calling add of hurry 11th time. This
is 11th object. Now tell me when I call 11th time, control will come here. What
is the index number? 10. 10 index number location available or not available? Not
a then you will get here array index out of bounds exception. Uh now you created this class to get
array index out of bounds exception or to solve that exception
to solve that exception. Then for solving that exception what I have to do
I should write logic. What logic I have to write?
Growable array algorithm. I have to what is a growable algorithm? Should I store
the given object directly in the array? No.
Should I store the given object directly in the array? No. I have to verify
before storing object. I have to verify. Uh that's what I told in the separ methods. Getter methods encapsulation.
And by using encapsulation first we will take the value into our
and into the parameter before storing that value inside the original field we
will verify whether this value right or wrong. If right we will store if wrong
we will throw error or we will write alternate logic. Remember so tell me here I develop encapsulation.
So tell me learning collections is nothing but learning complete object
oriented programming only all chapters whatever up to now all chapters will come. Uh tell me now when
I should increase the capacity of the array before storing object I should
verify size equal equal to capacity. Here what is the size? Size is nothing
but how many objects you have stored. The count
size is the count how many objects you have stored. Capacity is nothing but
length totally how many objects we can store. For example, I'm calling add
method first time. What is the size? Zero. Add method I'm calling first time.
Size zero. Capacity 10. 0= 10. Pause. Go and store. Add method.
Second time. 1= 10. No. Store. Third time. 2=
fourth time. 3= to fifth time. Four equal to sixth time. 5= to 7th time.
6= to eighth time. Ninth time. 10th time. When I call 10th
time, what the size? 9. 9 equal equal to 10
no then 10th element also store 11th time I am calling 11th time size is 10
10 equal to equal to 10 row then what happen capacity before storing object
first you increase the capacity increase the capacity increase capacity
logic is what increase and Is it?
No, we have to write code. What is the code?
Create new array. Copy elements from old array to new
array. Assign a new array reference to reference value.
First step, pass the element. Second step found size equal equal to capacity.
Third step increase capacity method is called. Inside increase capacity method new
array object is created. Should I fix the size error? Dynamically generated.
I should dynamically generate.
Why? Because this method I am writing not for one size every time I have to increase based on the current size. So
CC means what? Current capacity into two double. Every time I want double my capacity. Current capacity into what the
current capacity? Current capacity is 10. 10 into 20. So a
new array object is created with how many capacity? 20.
Then for in=0 I less than tell me I should write this for loop on new arena
on old arena here condition I should write on new
arena old array if you write a new array here number
substitute 20 you want to copy elements from new array to old array to new array
you want to copy elements from old array to new array. So you have to write condition on old array length. You want
to copy 10 elements not 20 elements. So I less than obj.length
I ++. Why did I give gap here? Something I want to remind you. Don't write
something here. What is that? Equal to excellent. I should not write I
less than or equals to equal to should not write. tempo obj of I equal to OBJ
of I.
Okay. Uh what happened? Zero index copy to new
array. One index copy to new array. Two index copy to new array. All 10 elements are copied to new array. Then after
copying elements from old array to new array, old array required or not required?
Then what I need this tempo obj reference copy into obj. So obja stop
point in the 10 location array. It started pointing to this 20 location.
Okay. Now then control come back to the calling place. After method execution
completed control go out of if condition. By the time control command or if condition obj is pointing to old
arena new arena new array in the new array index 10
available yes in the index 10 now the new object
hurry can be stored. Yes index++ 12 then
you call method for 20 text. Now 21 object you are trying to store. Then
size 20 equal equal to 20. True. Again increase capacity. New array created
with 40 locations. 20 objects are copied into new element. OBJ pointing to 40
location array. Control come out and then go to next one.
Then obj pointing to 40 location array in a
20 20 location 20 index in a 20 index object is stored. Hope you all
understand growable area algorithm how we develop.
And now the question is what is the size method here? Is it a predefined method? Our method
predefined method.
In your class predefined method you will call you want size of your array and
capacity of your array then how can you use the predefined methods to work on your object here it's our method where I
create in this nit class only I have put size should return what index capacity
should return what length size is the number of objects you store where are you representing the counter
Index variable is nothing but count only. First time an NIT collection created how many elements are there?
Zero. The index is nothing but count. So this index variable is helping us in
a two ways. Number one to give the index number to array location. Number two to
count how many objects are available in the collection. When first object is stored index value one, how many objects
are stored? One. Where second objects to store? One. Okay. Now
and last batch one student did mistake in the flow in the habit if and he
return these two lines in the else and started crying. Sir these two lines are not working sir. Hey these two lines
should work always. Either you increase or not increase. Always these two lines should execute.
Then should I place in the else block? No. When size equal equal to capacity capacity increase and hurry not store it
in the array don't write in else clock you write directly after use block increase
capacity method don't want execute always so we write in the if but these two lines always should execute so
should not write in else directly you should write if understand
uh this is growable array algorithm code and this is the tag
What is this? Can you understand it now? Main method. This is a main method.
This is our NID collection. Collection ready. Array problem. Type problem solved. Size problem solved. Type
problem solved by using object array. Size problem is solved by applying
growable array algorithm by add method increase capacity method. Now I have to test this applications type size problem
solved or not. Then create test class main method. Inside test class main
method. If you want to store objects in object array first of all I have to create object of this class. Now because
it's a non-static value. So I have to create object of this class. Now tell me I created n
collection call new collection. When I create nid collection object how much memory is created? Are you people can
guess and tell me
10 location?
First up what happened? Call variable is created.
First of call variable is created and then new keyword create the instance
and new keyword will go to NIT collection class. Inside NIT collection class which chapter you are learning now
collection of non-static member chapra.
It is a simple non-static members chapter
class non-static variable object to meth records new keyword we'll go to nit
collection class found non-static variables how many are there two obj index
okay variable names are changing there into count index counter don't worry about exact matching names okay counter
obj two variables created obj with null index with zero. Then constructor
executor inside constructor objal new object of 10 10 locations array created
with the default values null and then in variable zero will be the results. So by
the time this line completed what happened nit collection object with
object object with 10 locations created. Uh now next line what I called I want to
add one object call add of double quotes save tell me what happened
first string object is created
first string object is created with a value a
with value a and pass that reference to whom now add method
uh add method Taking that object. Check the size. What
the size value? Zero. 0= 10. False. Then obj directly
stored in the zero index and increase the index value one.
Okay. Now understand
index value increased by one then control come to main call that add
double port. Now what happen now double port means another string object is created with a data a visibleize the
background flow of execution. Then control go to add method with what
reference 222. Then inside that method what is the
logic is there check size. What the size one one equal to 10 false. Then add
object here. Here no.
Now replace with the 222 and pointing to that object and index is increased by 1
2 come to main method called add of file.
What is the add method parameter? Object what you are passing primitive
value. When I pass primitive value to object is a primit has a primitive value pass autoboxing applied.
Um autoboxing is applied. Primitive value converted to integer object.
Integer object reference is passed. So background what happen? Integer object is created.
Integer object is created with reference 333. The 3 33 is passed to arbit checking the size two 2= equal to 10
false then 33 is stored in the second index point increase by three
everyone flow coming up like this 6.7 through single cro
okay now you have to work out at home you have to work out this program and
this diagram compulsory. You have to type the previous program in your system in Eclipse and you have to create main
method with this another calls and you have to try and see the error index order once exception solved or okay
now call add double quotes when you pass new object is new string object created
or not created double quotes a is a lit object object
comes under pooling Huh.
And now JB will go to pool and verify double quotes say already available. Yes
one is there. So that one one pass to add method that 111 will be stored and point to the same. So from both
locations from zero index and six index is pointing to same object. So string
handling chapter revised. Next 8 9 10 store.
Uh now tell me I'm passing 11. Another integer object is created. 11 I passed.
When I pass 11 add method size is returns what? 10. 10 equal equal to 10.
True. Then what happen? Um new collection object. So new increase
capacity method is called new array is created with how many locations? 20
locations.
Now, next for loop, copy the references from old array into new. Come on, tell
me. Copy objects are copy object references.
References are copied. Objects are not copied. Okay. References are copied. Uh then next
then this new array is pointing to the previous 10 limits. Next stop word
the new reference 3030 stored in OBJ 2020 replace with 303. Now it is
pointing to the new object. Old object array is eligible for gar
collection. All references are gone.
Now c obj array pointing to the new array. New array pointing to all these
elements. That means from the JVM from our memory
this fellow and there it references are gone. This is the new memory D.
Understand
here onwards. Our add method access this 20 locations there.
Uh now control come back to add method after if condition in add method obj of
for the index number 10 equal to 11.
So this is the complete story about collection programming solving size
problem. So array has two problems. Two problems
we have solved. One is type problem by choosing array. Second size problem by
using growable array algorith. You have to type this program in your laptop in
your eclipse. Will you type and you have to draw this diagram by
yourself by keeping this program in in front of you. This is main method.
Inside main method write this line and write all these method blocks.
Will you work? If you work then 18 collection classes
is easy. Tell me some micro system or air
developer or high-tech CP developer any developer using Java language only
in Java language to solve the size problem everyone should write the same logic there is no another
so this logic is changing time to time a fixed logic
it is a fixed logic either you write or some micros system write logic is same instead of you writing some already
written But you have to learn your mother preparing the food, your father
earning money. But at some point of the time you should also learn how to prepare food, how to earn the money. Now
because going on you are the one who has to prepare the food, you are the one who has to earn the money.
So as long as you are in Amir, as long as you are a faculty, you don't need to learn what code is there. But you want
to go to company. In company you have to write this kind of code only. If you practice this kind
of algorithms then in company it will be easy for you to write the new algorithms.
If you learn one cycle writing any cycle you can write by the same balancing knowledge.
I want to share my experience. I learned car driving on
all to 800. Okay. All to 800 car accelator
brake clutch very hard. You have to
press it. If you want to stop the car, you have to press the brake. You have to stand on
the brake. Then the car will be stopped. Okay. After car learning I got the I got
the license. Later one of my friend has a car called
Swift
car clutch brake accelator. No pressing touch.
Okay. He asked me which car you know. I said all to 100. Okay. First you get
into the car drive seat. driving seat I get. Then he asked me uh take the first
break I mean first gear then I started move. Then the moment I what is my leg
habit touch press in swift car also I press it is
you know one jump it is taken and he look at my face and laugh
it is not al don't press touch it
in you will learn alto So 5 all to 800 inexity you have to work with this
shifter. Next after few distance going then he
asked apply brake stop the car then what I did I touch breaker
press breaker with a habit I press the brake my
friends there in the back seat all people come to my friend
okay and they shouted at me hey what are you You're a stupid fellow.
Okay. Again, don't press. Okay.
So, if you don't learn this small small course in in the amirate along with me
in high-tech city, you cannot survive. Uh all people are asking me sir, you
don't teach arena. You don't teach arena. Go array to this on this object
array. I explain you how to increase the capacity of array. This is growable
array algorithm. So I don't want to teach array separately, collection separately. I
want to mix array and collection all programs together. So that time will be saved and you'll get more maturity. In
company we don't use array. We will use only collections. In C language array
programming is very very important. In Java array programming, no collection programming is very important. But
collection is working on top of array. Can I say collection is a abstract layer
of array?
What the meaning of abstract layer? Top layer hiding hiding the details of array
programming by collection. So finally we have completed first two
problems. It allows only homogeneous objects. It size cannot be increased or
decreased. Uh then third problem, fourth, fifth problems. Okay. Third
problem, I'm not going to teach you. I will share the videos. You have to continue working. How to remove the
element from the array? One algorithm is there. How to search element in the array? One algorithm is there. How to
sort elements in the array? One algorithm is there. Few algorithms videos I am sharing you have to work
will you work now continuation up to 1:00
okay if you are busy with now with your work no problem later some other time
you can work not a problem I'm not going to take remove searching
sorting as a special classes now in the coming days anyways I will teach but if you want each operation as separate I'll
share video you can go through once but I will teach these these algorithms I
will explain the regular class remove algorithm I explain search algorithm I explain sorting algorithm I will explain
but as part of the collection code some micros system given code no sir like uh
this collection uh if you want perform more operations I have to add more
methods down add and increase capacity method is solving add operation now I I
want more operation. Counting size method. Printing two string method.
Next uh removing search method. Search remove
method for all 10 operations in this collection class. How many methods I should define? 10 methods.
I will share the program and videos for adding separate separate method. Please
go through once and work yourself and in the next coming classes when I'm teaching some given collections anyways
I'll explaining algorithm again but if you do revision and come to the next classes it will be easy for okay now
uh now tell me so this third point I am holding for the time being in the next
classes we will next what the fourth problem cannot store objects in different form So first of all how many
formats? Okay, look at here. How many operations? Nine operations. Then nine methods we have to create. So in
collection class we have nine methods. Next let us understand different formats for storing objects. What the different
formats for storing objects. Two formats we have. Number one array format. Number
two key value page format. What is array format?
In array format data is stored with index. Is index 0 1 2 3 giving meaning
or no meaning? No meaning.
Uh for example I am showing this data to someone on the road in Amir or in KPHP.
I'm showing this information and tell me are people know about what is 7279 what
is Har Krishna? What is Narish IT? What is Java? No.
Now if I give proper information like this 7 to 79 is employee number, Har
Krishna is employee name. Har ID is institute. Java is it teaches Java.
Okay. So which approach is best? array for key value pair for
I know that if key value format is best why some micros system providing array
format don't show your talent rail
when there are two vehicles in your house bike and car which one is best and
what you'll say both are best that's true depending on
your requirement you have to choose I want to go to the next gali. Bike is sufficient. No cycle is sufficient. I
want to go 5 kilometers alone bike. I want to go 5 km or next gali by entire
family. Then car uh enter apartment want to go bus.
Okay. I am shifting my house.
Glory. So when there multiple options are there
you should not say that that is best or this is best you have to say both are best depending on requirement my data is
already having the information for example I'm taking student object or
employee object in employee object already employee number employee name institute teachers these are already
variables now
by calling sets I can get this data, right?
So when there is already information or when you not required of information
key value pair format not required directly array format we will use. Okay now
so how many formats of organizing data two formats number one array format
number two key value p format. Another time our NIT collection class
stores object in which format?
Array format. Now I want to store objects in key value p format. So then
the existing nit collection class supports another class required.
uh not telling you now another class can I call it as nit table.
Okay. NIT table. Uh now inside NIT table how many arrays I have to create?
Think I want to store key value
for storing all keys in one array
for storing all values another array
but you want to store key value as mapping.
Now how to do mapping by the index number? Store key value pair in zero index.
Second key value one index of both errors of both errors. In both errors same
index understood.
Now can you rewrite NIT collection as NIT table?
You can call it as a table or you can call it as a map.
Now what are the changes we have? Step number one create a new class with two arrays. First array name is key.
Secondary name is value. Second step
inside nip map class define add method with one parameter or two parameters.
Two parameters because I need key and value inside add method store first argument
in key array second argument in value array in the same index zero.
Next step. If size equal to capacity, if the size equal to capacity, then I have
to increase one area of both arrays.
Increase the capacity of both arrays
and copy elements from two old arrays to new two old arrays. New arrays.
and assign key to the new array value to the new NI collection work with one array. NIT
table work with two. So tell me format problem also solved or
not. So for solving format problem how many arrays required? Sorry how many classes
how many collection classes required? Two collection classes NID collection NID.
Next, I want to store objects in a different order. I want to store objects
in different order. So, what are the different orders we have? Now, listen carefully.
Storing order is there and retrieving order is there.
Storing order number one, insertion order.
Number two, hash code order. What is order? Hash code order number three
sorting order. Totally how many orders are there? Three orders. Insertion order, hash code
order, sorting order.
Retrieving order. How many orders retrieving order? Number one sequ uh
random order. I want to go to zero index. Take 10 index. Take. Okay. Random
access order. Second sequential order
one after one 0 1 2 3 like third
lio order. Last in first
uh people are saying last in first out is a storing order. Hey it is not storing order. It is a retrieving order.
Last in first out is not a storing order. Retrieving order. Next first in first out order. First in
first out order is also retrieving order not storing order.
So totally how many orders we have? Seven three storing four retrieving. Then how
many classes required? Seven classes.
Uh if you yourself create 7 into 2 why into two two formats.
If you create these 14 classes, nine operation methods, 14 classes with nine
methods by you yourself, then the course is data structures and all.
If you are learning these 14 classes and nine methods with collection given
predefined data structures then that is called collection
data structures.
No, I want to study some given collections and also I want I want to create my own. Then join data structures
using Java course. After core Java completed, join this course.
Sir, what is your recommendation? Don't waste your money.
Don't waste your money. I always give importance to your money
because you all people are coming from very poor family background.
Now the data structures course they are teaching whatever I taught not more than that.
Okay. If you learn how to create If you learn how to create this collection
class by your own with all the nine methods what I am sharing same code will
you going to learn the data structures class with extra technology with this entire course of knowledge by
searching the Google can't you prepare yourself
if you cannot prepare by yourself then you are not suitable to go to software
industry in companies you have to learn so many things by your own I only giving
syllabus I only giving everything only you have to learn some extra words some
extra technology only you have to learn that extra technology learning also if you are not using your brain with the
help of Google not YouTube Google
or YouTube whatever again you are paying money and joining it's not good it's up to you man if you
want to be a software engineer after core java completed you yourself daily 1
hour spend on data structures creating every collection by your mode I'm giving
sample code by following that code you have to write the code for each data structure for order uh nit collection
storing objects in which order insertion which order retrieving random and
sequential now you wanted to write one more class for hash code order one more class for sorting order. One more class
for LEO order. One more class called FIFO order. Simple. Okay. Now
everyone got confidence what you are learning, why you are learning, how you are learning, what is data structures,
what is collection? Now
some given collections in Java 1.0 version. Okay. Now we are entered
from the base to first floor. Basement is what? Ground floor. Ground floor what we
understood. Uh what is the collection? What is the steps? What is the lift? Okay. Everything understood. Now I want
you come to the first stage. What is the first stage? Collection 1.0. I will teach 1.0 1.1 1.2
1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9. No 1.9 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 up
to 22 version what are the changes coming all changes in the collection chapter I'm going to explain do you have
patency or you want real sir
real collection
you know Previously I have one faculty nar he used to comment meishna
teaches serial I will teach movie that time real soon YouTube shots not there
okay that movie faculty class strength is maximum 50 my movies class strength
is 500 1 zero gone but still he is commenting on me he's
used to point me. I don't know when I when when my students are coming and telling sir that faculty is commenting
you saying that you are teaching uh movie he's teaching sorry I'm teaching
serial he's teaching movie okay
I used to laugh no problem he's a strength my strength you can come and now people have started commenting
me haris teach movie I will teach reals
Now I least bother you. I always work for my satisfaction. I never work for
students satisfaction. I'll work for my satisfaction because I know software industry. I know the destination what
knowledge you need to survive. My target is not only this particular
class course completion after course completed I should be like a bridge
between your academics to software industry once you enter into
software industry you should not face any difficulty that is what my target so that's why I never care about your
comments I know once you start attending interviews working in company you will
definitely come back and feel so happy. I Okay, now let me go in my own way. All
the people support me. Tell me re collections framework
all classes are divided into how many classes? How many groups?
Yes. No.
Five groups are a groups. How many groups?
Groups. Groups. I'm asking group not total number. I'm asking groups. How many groups?
Two groups. On what basis? Format.
Sun given collection classes in Java 1.0 for storing objects in array format and
key value page format. Two formats are there.
uh array format one class key value pair format one
class in the Java 1.0 J version some micro system target is only storing just
they want to store and store and so we have two classes number one vector
number two has table now tell me what is the difference
between these two classes vector and hash table when to choose vector class when to choose has table tell me are you
developing data structure you are using data structure you are using already developed Then you
have to decide when to use what. You have cycle, you have bike, you have car. Which vehicle I have to choose? You have
to take decision. Now tell me vector hash table. going to use
which class? If you want to store objects in
uh if you want to store objects without
mappings, if you want to store objects without mappings, which class I have to use
back. If you want to store objects with mappings, which class I have to use
attitude. Uh tell me you are developing a project. As part of the project you decided to
store student objects as a group then which collection I have to use vector
has table. I want to store student object directly. No identity required.
Then what object I create? Vector. Now help me the code to write vector v1 equal to new vector. When I create
vector v1 equal to new vector background object array created with the 10 locations in the vector class object.
Huh? In place of nid collection what is
there? Vector is there. Uh inside vector object array available the 10 locations.
Now I want to store objects. Then v dot what method I have to call? Add
v dot add of s1 v dot add of s2 v dot add of s3 v dot s of s10. Then what is
stored? Student objects are stored in vector object in object array in 10
locations. Are you able to visualize this diagram?
This diagram you have to visualize in place of nit collection what you
return vector v equal to new vector v dot uh add v dot add s1 s2 s3 s4 s5 s2
then these all circles place what objects are coming student objects and the references are stored
if I try to store padd1 then what happen method implicit
Increase the capacity of the array. 20 location array created. All 10
elements are copied here and 11. So there is no difference between NID
collection and vector. Both are same. Only thing is name is changed. So
I want to store every student with a student number as a identity.
I want to store student object with the student number as identity. What should I do now? Which class I have to choose
vector has table has table I have choose has table ht
equal to new hash table ht dot uh listen in table method name is not add method
name is put ht.ut put of
S number SN comma S sub S1 SN comma S1
again second object HT dotput of S2 SN
comma S2 like that you are uh tell me all people are got
picture clarity on what you are learning this onee classes
uh in 1.0 version how many classes available these four classes or five classes
available with these two classes can I manage different orders?
No. Then in the next versions 1.0 0 1.1
sir 1.1 1.2 1 1.3 based on the requirements they keep on adding next
next methods. So by Java 22 version we have almost 23 classes.
Oh no 18 classes sorry 18 classes and uh
uh 10 + 3 13 interfaces 18 classes 13 interfaces.
So we have to learn that 13 interface names and 18 class names and their
purpose. That's all collection.
So tomorrow in the regular class I will list out the class names available as
part of collections framework and also the different methods available in collections framework to perform
operation. After learning all the class names and method names then we can start program.
I hope all people enjoy the sessions.
I will share all these slides plus videos.
Please try to today if you have time. Today only everyone practice this code
not time compulsory you have to spend the time to practice this code type in your system you have to buy hard
yeah your today topic completed
understand this code you have to buy her you should be there in your eyes you
should remember when I'm writing predefined classes score I will ask do you remember NIT collection call add
another remember nit collection class memory diagram this di this code and
this diagram you should practice with hands-on experience you should give today Sunday don't take any extra works
please spend the time on preparing this di this code and this memory diagram until these two coming don't plan any
other works okay Huh?
Okay. I I will take Sunday extra time because
just keep you engaged. That's it. So once topic completed complete. So next
topic I have to teach the problems of vector and hash table. Next versions next versions to understand minimum two
hours require. Okay. So your mind cannot accept further
that this much is sufficient.
Thank you everyone. See you all. Okay. 1 minute. 1 minute. 1 minute. 1 minute. 1
minute. 1 minute. Where this entire not is available? Whatever I have explained
this entire notes is available in material drive. You know I'll pick
material drive. material drive
collections Java books four Java books
and here you have Jedox material 3
in the Jedox material 3 you call here it is
okay now the jerox material three all points
Whatever I explain all points are there. Anyways, I will also upload the slides
but slides not having the explanation explanation notes is available here.
Thank you everyone. That's all for today class. Thank you so much for
happy Sunday.

