ript


Right.
Good morning everyone. So last class we completed different classes available in the collection.
uh in this session let us try to complete the methods available in the uh collections framework so that we can
understand the next story. Uh tell me now what are the different operations you
can perform on collection. Number one adding object. Number two
counting object. Number three printing. Number four searching.
Okay. Number four searching. Number five
retrieving. Number six remove.
Number seven, insert. Number eight,
uh replacing
replacing, inserting and then number nine, sort. So these other nine
operations we have uh tell me among these nine these to perform these nine
operations we have methods on collection we can perform two types
of operations number one single object operation number two bulk
object operation single object operation is add one object I want to add object I
want add multiple objects add all of other Collection. I can copy elements
from one collection to another collection. One object object multiple
objects collection. Next count. I want to count how many objects are stored.
What the method name? Size. I want to print for printing purpose. What method? Two string. You already two string is
over in the collection. Just you print your object. Collection will be uh two string executed. All elements will be
print. I want to search then I have a method called contains.
Remember string handling chapter. Whatever methods you discussed in string and linking same methods will be
available in collection also. String is a uh collection of characters.
Collection is a collection of objects just that is the difference remaining all are same. What you want to search
for object OBJ. You want to search for one object contains object. I want to
search for multiple objects. Then what I required contains all contains all of
collection C. Okay. Contains object contains all of collection C. Next I
want retrieve for retrieving purpose. Okay. Let me write in notepad. It's not sufficient
space.
uh I want to retrieve for retrieving purpose. We have method iterator.
Remember yesterday I told enumeration iterator list iterator uh iterator also
we have for each loop
also we have for each method which take parameter consumer already know. Also we
have stream. Also we have parallel stream.
Parallel stream. Also we have split iterator. So these are the different ways we can
retrieve objects from the collection. Okay. Next removing. I want remove objects. For
removing purpose we have method remove of object OB. Uh I want remove all
objects. remove all of collection C. Uh I want remove the elements except the
elements available in the given collection. Then method name is retain all
retain all of collections C. I want remove all elements. No I want remove I
want remove if condition is matched. So tell me how can I pass condition as a argument predicate.
Remember a predicate interface, functional interface. Uh remove if remove one object. Remove given
collection of object. Remove except this given collection of object and remove. If this condition is matched, I want
remove all elements available in the collection. Then method is clear. All elements I want remove. Clear. Okay.
I want replace array. If you want replace element, I should have index number.
Uh tell me collection as index where all these methods are available.
All these methods are available in collection interface. Collection interface collection interface is common
to both set and list. Set doesn't have index. List has index. Then these
methods are developed in collection interface based on word without index.
So boolean add object and next boolean add all of object. The given object is
added then returns true. The given all collection elements are added returns true. Size return type is what? In print
return type is string. Search boolean contains the given object found returns
true. The given collection all elements available returns true. Retrieving
iterator it returns iterator. And next for each loop for each method why
stream return type is what? Stream parallel stream also return type is stream. Split iterator split iterator.
Okay. Next removing object if the given object is removed returns boolean. Uh
all elements are removed. Boolean. Except this collection all elements are removed. Boolean. Remove if void. Given
condition match remove. And next clear vid. Okay. Uh next replacing not
supported. Uh next insert. If you want insert also
what I required index uh not supported.
Next sort. If you want to sort uh you need duplicate should be there
should not be there. A lot of conditions are there. That's what is also not supported by collection. So these three
operations are not supported by collection. Collection supports only these six operations. Now tell these six
operations are available in which interface. Collection interface. Now collection has sub interface what? List
list interface. So what are the additional methods available in list interface? Collection provided common
operation. Those operations are inherited to whom? List. Then in
addition to those methods, list has provided some more additional methods. What the additional methods? What are
the difference between collection and list? Collection is non-index based. List interface is index based
and then that means based on the index we have some extra methods. I want add
this is not actually add it is what? Insert. I want insert object. Do you
know crude operations on database? We can perform crude operations. Now uh
create, read, update, delete. Create is nothing but insert, read, get, update,
update, delete, delete. And now the methods available int index. If you want
retrieve, I have to use what method? Int index object OBJ. I I want also uh int
index collection C. This is return type is void and this return type is boolean.
I want to count. Count already available. Same method no change. Printing same method no change. Search
uh for searching purpose. Okay. I'll take the search method
down. First I want retrieve. Uh second I want retrieve object. For retrieving I
have iterator. We have extra interface. List iterator. list iterator. Okay. For
each loop already inherited, for each method inherited, stream inherited, uh
uh parall stream inherited, split iterator inherited. And then we have another extra method here called object
get of int index. Based on the index, I will give you index. You give me my
object. Okay. uh I want all objects available in the uh list then we can use
get method or I can use listed. These two are the extra methods. Again repeating whatever the operations
available in the collection interface all these operations plus extra two. What are the extra two? Get and listed.
The next I want to search the object for searching purpose. Uh okay before searching I want to go for update also.
Update is nothing but replace. Replace uh replace purpose. We have a
method called what? Set int index, object OBJ. In this index already we
have one object. I want to replace that object with what? New object. For that what the name set
and it returns object. What is this object? Old object. Already old object in this index available. that object it
will remove to us. Okay, return to us. So replace method has one method. What
is that? Set. For replacing purpose we have one method. What is the name of the method? Set. Set of int index comma
object OBJ. Then next
removing purpose. What are the methods available removing? Fourth operation remove of object inherited. Remove all
inherited. Return all inherited. Remove if inherited. Clear inherited. So what
is the extra method available? Uh tell me collection list collection contains what? A special operation based on what?
Index. I want remove object based on the index. You give index. I will remove
that index object and return that object. So the extra method is available what? Remove of index. So that means the
available all these six methods plus five methods. these five methods plus
extra method remove index. So if your object is list interface, I can use all
these five methods plus extra method also. This remove of index also I can use. The next searching uh now searching
purpose if you remember uh in a string handling chapter we have two methods for searching. Searching and retrieving
retrieving index. Searching and retrieving index
contains method search and tell you whether object available or not. But I want to search and retrieve index.
Enter. What are the method name? Index of object. Uh next again one more method
in index of last index of last index of last index of object OBJ. So index of
and last index of replacing the sort. Now tell me sixth operation sorting. For
sorting purpose we have the method uh void sort of comparator. Yesterday
remember I told you for sorting purpose two interfaces are supporting. What the two interfaces? Number one
comparable number two comparator. So here sort method uses what? Comparator.
Okay. Sort method uses comparate avoid sort of off. Okay. So now uh again
repeating I want list based operation. On list based what are the operations we
will do? Crude operations. List contain index and crude operations. What the crude operation? Insert, retrieve.
Okay. Uh replace and remove. In addition to these four operations, we can also
perform what? Search where condition and also we can perform sublist.
Retrieving sublist. Uh for retrieving sublist, for
retrieving substring in the string class, what method available? Substring method. Here we have sublist method.
Method name is sublist. uh int index int start comma int start comma int end
index object included or not included not list of. So this is the sublist
method and then
next method is what sort. So these are the methods you have to learn from uh
what point of view list interface pointer. So totally how many operations we have number one for adding object how
many methods are there two adder for counting object size for printing object
two string for searching object two methods contains and contains all for
retrieving uh how many methods are there iterator for each loop for each method
for each method stream method parallel stream method split iterator for removing object remove all, retain all,
remove if clear and for replacing not supporting and inserting not supporting,
sorting not supporting. Now in list interface we have extra methods are there. In addition to collection
interface methods, list interface providing some extra method. What is that? Insert. Add. Add all. Retrieving.
Get list iterator. Replacing. Set. Removing. Remove of index. Searching and
retrieving. Searching and retrieving index. Object index.
Object index. What is that? Index of and last index of uh retrieving sub sublist
method sublist. And sorting purpose sort. So these are the methods available
in the list and collection. Sir, where can I find all these methods sir? These are the methods you remember and given.
But where I I can find these methods? Uh for finding these methods, you have to use what? API documentation.
Sir, no. You have to use API documentation. Uh tell me now where I can find API documentation. Open this
and type here Java 22 API documentation. Uh open this link. Uh
come click here. What is this? What interface you want to know? Collection.
Open java.tutil.colction. Uh then in this collection interface.
If you scroll down, you'll find the details of the collection interface. What is the collection? Collection is a
root interface of uh the root interface in the collection hierarchy. What is the collection?
Collection is the root interface of collection hierarchy. A collection means represents a group of
objects known as its elements. Some collection allows duplicate elements and
others don't. Some are ordered and some other are unordered. collection that
have defined encountered order generally subtypes of sequence collection interface. Okay, leave it. Then go down,
go down, go down, go down. You will find all the methods available in this collection interface. Now look at there.
Some of the methods we covered. Are there any extra methods are available? Check. Add E stands for what? Generary.
And we are taking it as what? Object. Add all clear. Contains contains all
equals hash code is empty. If you want to find collection empty or not, which method I have to call is empty. uh
iterator parallel stream remove object remove all of collection remove if predicate retain all size split iterator
stream to array if you want to convert collection to array object you can call what method to array to array method
look at there all methods what we discussed everything is available uh now collection is the super interface of
whom now list click on list interface
uh now look at here go down you'll An ordered collection where the user has
precise control over where the list each element is inserted. An ordered
collection where the user has precise control over where in the list each
element is
uh each element is inserted. And now the user can access elements by their
integer index and search for elements in the list. Okay. Now go down, go down, go
down, go down. You can find the methods available. Observe. Now add index. This
is list method or collection inherited method. If index is there then only list
interface method. Add int index. Add all. Add all of collection. Add first.
Add last. Clear. Contains. Contains all. Copy of equals get, get get first, get
last. These are Java 22 methods. Okay, newly added methods in Java 22. What
type of method? These are list is a interface. It has a newly added method.
Then if you add in these methods as a abstract method subass to implement then
without forcing the subasses to if you want to add a new methods what I have to add default default hash code index of
is empty iterator last last index of list iterator list iterator and now in
Java Java 9 version we got new methods for
creating collection that is of return type is list. Already we experienced
this method while working with a string list of here we can take element dot dot
e. So you can pass zero to n number of elements. So off method is meant for
creating list type collection that is off method. No parameter one parameter 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Okay. More than 10 I
want to throw. Then we have where are where are the off method. Uh next we go down we'll find remove int index next
remove first remove last replace all. Okay for replacing purpose we have one more new method called what? Replace
all. Replace all method is a default method. It is added in the new version
while replace all of unary operator. Retain all reversed. If you want reverse
the string you can reverse the list. You can use method size sort split iterator
sublist to array and two array. So whatever the methods I have mentioned here these are the important methods for
you daily using in your project. Clear my point. Write out these methods.
Come later.
Then completed
or not completely very
if you have space list interface mide Right side of these methods page if you
divide two ops first of collection second of list if you have space if you
don't have space write down
Let us go down.
Done. This method for creating
list with uh immutable list.
Creating immutable list.
Ninth method.
Hey, this is static method.
This is available in Java 9. This is available from Java 10.
Sort method available from Java 8.
Tell me from one project one collection class to another collection class program changed
or the background memory order changed.
What is the difference from one collection to another collection?
H what change now I'm creating four classes first one is test01
vector okay
copy paste I'm taking with the name test02
error list okay and next copy paste I'm taking 03
link list. Uh I'm taking copy paste step.
Now you decide and tell me for all these four collections program changed or the background methods
implementation logic and memory changed only memory and implementation changed
but the program I'm writing is what same. Why? All these four collections
are subclass of listed. Whatever the methods available in the list, same
methods are inherited to all four classes. Now I want to add to the vector. Which method I have to call?
Add. Okay. I want add elements to the array list link list start. Which I have to
call add. For all four collections to add what object add for finding the size for
printing to string. Uh for searching contains for it retrieving iterator for
each loop stream parallel stream. For removing remove all for uh inserting add
for retrieving get for replacing set to replace all for removing removing index
for finding its index of index. So these methods whatever you have written here
same methods you have to call for all the four collections. Then what is the difference? Cycle to bike what is the
difference? Both are two wheelers. Cycle you have to push the pedals. Bike you have to
give the accelator. That is the difference. So from one object to another object program is the same.
That's why collections are called what? Runtime polymorphic nature. from one collection to another collection what is
changing internal memory is changing but the outer is what same. So if I teach
you program with one collection other collection can you develop by your own
what main uh now tell me here I want to store
now I want to work with vector tell me something about vector point number one what is a vector vector is a Java 1.0
collection or Java 1.2 version collection 1.0 Zero vector is a legacy collection.
Legacy collection. Legacy means old. Okay. His legacy is coming from years.
Legacy means what? Is a old person. Okay. Uh so vector is a legacy collection. It is available from
it is available from Java 1.0. No need to write try to digest the points I'm
telling here. No need to write. Try to digest these points to your mind from one collection to another collection.
Program is not changed. These points are changed. Second, this is what is vector?
Why vector? When to use vector? We must Okay. Okay. When we want to store
When we want to store multiple objects in insertion order
with index in multi-threaded
application with thread safety we must choose
vector. Okay, you can write here otherwise we
must choose a vector for storing
for storing multiple objects in which order insertion order uh with the index
where in multi-threaded environment multi-threaded application with the
thread safety we must choose vector what is vector and why vector Okay. Then I
have created a vector object. Okay. I created vector object. When I create vector object, tell me uh background
object memory created or not? Okay. What is that imp? Okay. Let me first tell
this is this vector synchronized or non-synchronized? Vector is synchronized?
Vector is synchronized. Okay. uh means every time when for every operation object is locked and unlocked. So now it
is good in uh it is best suitable
multi-threaded application and not good in single thread application. Okay. Next
fourth point is it order collection or unordered collection? Order means is it maintain the objects in uh insertion
order? Yes. With index? Yes. Vector is a
is a ordered collection because it maintains
insertion order. IO means what? Insertion order.
It maintains insertion order. Uh next fifth point. Okay. Now I I decided to
use vector because my application is multi-threaded application. I want synchronization. If I create vector
object background object array created with 10 locations.
Uh now tell me after 10 element store next 11th element is allowed to store or
not allowed. Allowed. Not allowed. Collection is what? Growable. So what is
its data structure? It's implemented
Growable array. These are the three questions enter will ask. What is the
implement data structure of vector? Okay. What is the implement data
structure of vector? He will ask then he must be able to answer it is a growable array.
Okay. Next. If I create vector what is the default capacity?
Default capacity the size. What the size? 10. Vector object background array
object is created with how many locations? 10 locations. Not size. Size means how many elements you have stored
is size. Uh next what is your default age?
When you born what is your age? Zero.
What is your age limitation? How many years you can live here? 100 years. 100
is your capacity. If you are eating bad health habits and bad sleeping habits,
then you will die by 40 years. Right? So God has given you 100 years is
your time limit. If you are maintaining good health habits and good life system, then 100 years happily, healthily you
can live. Otherwise you'll face lot of difficulties. Ah okay. Then you born that is zero years. Then one year one
one is what? Size capacity is what? 100 size capacity difference. What is the
default capacity of vector? 10. Means it is a capable of storing how many objects? 10. uh if it reach to 10 then
incremental capacity how much it will increase either + one
or double + one or double for example you created vector with the capacity 0
into 2 0 only now that's why it is not double it will become what + one 0 + 1
one onwards into two okay double uh so default capacity
is 10 incremental capacity default capacity and initial capacity initial capacity 10 and incremental capacity
plus one or double. So what the first point what is a vector? Vector is a legacy collection. It is available from
Java 1.0 version in Java 1.2 version.
It is retrofitted. Retrofitted and it's forcibly added.
It is added as implementation class of list interface.
Okay. It is added as implementation class of list interface. Okay. From Java
1.2 onwards, vector is part of collections framework as list interface implementation class. When should we use
vector? for storing multiple objects in insertion order with index in multi-threaded application with thread
safety. Vector is synchronized. Vector is ordered. It's a default capacity is 10. Its implement data structure is
growable array and incremental capacity is plus one or double. Uh next seventh
point. If I store objects in the vector, okay, vector memory structure everything is
ready. If you store objects in vector, what type of objects are allowed? All
four types of objects are allowed. What are the four types of objects?
What are the four types of objects? Homogeneous, heterogeneous, unique and duplicate. All four types of objects.
Homogeneous, heterogeneous, duplicate are allowed.
All four types of objects. Homogeneous, heterogeneous, unique and duplicate objects are allowed. Homogeneous means
same class object. Heterogeneous means different class object. Unique means
diff same class different data objects or different reference objects. Duplicate means same class same data or
same reference objects. Okay. 8 point uh in which order elements are stored. It
maintains or it stores objects.
In which order?
Insertion order. Uh, next. In which order it allows us to retrieve elements. It allows us to retrieve
elements either uh randomly
Whenever it is accepts randomly, automatically sequentially also accepts.
It allows us to retrieve elements either randomly or sequentially both orders it
accepts. Okay. And the next very important point
eighth point is null allowed to store object array is a reference type in reference type null is allowed to store
yes null is allowed how many nulls
come on guess how many nulls one or multiple Multiple nulls are allowed.
Multiple nulls are all because duplicates are allowed. And the next ninth point, it stores objects in
insertion order. 10th point, it allows us to retrieve objects either randomly or sequentially. Next, tell me if you
want to remove object from the collection. You are asking the vector vector go. I have already stored some
object X. You remove that X object. Then you are giving X as a argument to remove
method. Then remove method internally searching for this object. Searching
contains what? Comparison. So for comparison purpose in search and remove
operations uh vector internally
in contains and remove methods
in a contains and remove methods internally
equals method is called comma it is executed from which class always method
is executed from current object class. What the current object our class and it
is executed from our class. Okay, very very important in search and retrieve uh
search and remove operations. In contains and remove methods internally
equals method is called internally equals method is called it is executed
from our class. Tell me if it is overridden then data wise objects are
compared. If not overridden reference wise objects are compared. So totally these are the 11 points you have to know
about vector. About vector about vector. So first point what is a
vector? Vector is a legacy collection. Why vector? For storing objects in
multi-threaded application with thread safety in insertion order. in insertion
order with index. Vector is synchronized that's why used in multi-threaded application. So it is best in
multi-threaded application not good in single thread application. Vector is a
order collection. It maintains insertion order. It implement data structure is growable array. Default capacity 10. All
four types of objects are allowed. Null is allowed. Multiple nulls are allowed. It stored objects in insertion order. It
allows us to retrieve elements either randomly or sequentially in search and remove operations. Inside contains and
remove method inside contains and remove method. Uh internally equals method is
called and it is executed from our class. Our class that is searching
argument search argument object class.
Okay. and next. Okay. Now with all these points I decided I want to use vector
then available constructors. If you want to create object
I need to know what are the constructors available in vector class. In vector class we have four constructors.
Okay. In vector class we have four constructors. What the four constructors? Number one
vector of no parameter. I want to create a vector object with empty
vector object. No elements. Then vector I want to create vector object
with the elements available in another collection. Then collection C. I want to
copy elements from other collection and store. Then collection C. I have another
constructor int capacity. So by default what is the capacity of
the vector? 10. I don't want 10. I want five or I want more than 10. Less than
10. More than 10 I want. Then vector in initial capacity. The next vector int
capacity comma int incremental capacity. How much it should increase? I don't by
default capacity is incre incremented by either one or what? Double. Either one
or double. Uh I don't want one or double. I decided I want five. Every
time five five five I want increase then I have to use this fourth constructor. So vector class totally contain how many
points? 12 points. These 12 points if you understand remember then vector
related any question you can answer happily easily?
Okay everyone understand?
You have to remember this 10 sir. How to remember? Buy hard. You have to buy hard. That's it. Totally 12 points are
there. You have to buy hard for one collection. All 18 collections
are huh? For all 18 collections you have to buy her.
18 into 10 180 points.
Try collection going to dinner.
Uh so these are the nine operations we have to learn with these 10 questions.
What is vector and what the use of vector? Is it synchronized? Is it order?
What is implemented data structure? What the default capacity and incremental capacity? What type of elements are
allowed to store is null allowed? In which order elements are preserved means stored in which order elements are
retrieved. Internal methods calling in collection and executed from our class.
So these are the 10 questions plus uh all 10 questions answers I have already typed here. Plus 12th one is what
available constructor here first two points. First question what is vector y
vector? I made it as two points. Okay, you have to buy hard and practice. Remember now I want to create vector
object vector of I want allow store all types of object vector v1 equal to new
vector. Look at that. There are four constructors. I want to use first constructor. So tell me this constructor
creates vector object empty vector object with 10 locations as a default
capacity. Now I wanted to know what is the capacity of this vector object
capacity capacity plus C1 dot capacity there is a
method there is a method predefined method capacity oh sorry you didn't tell this capacity method in the list because
it's specific to vector class that's why not given I given methods of collection given methods of list but capacity
method is only specific to vector I want to Find size of the collection then I
have to use what the method v1 dot size v1 dot size and tell me in our nit
collection class we have already developed capacity method and size method uh now tell me vector class open
vector class source code observe uh public class vector place what we have used nit collection so scroll down there
is a object array we taken variable name as object and they have taken variable
name as what Element data. Scroll down. Uh we taken variable name as index. They
have taken variable name as what? Element count. So tell me our nit collection vector class both are same.
Open constructor uh constructor internally calling this of 10. What the meaning of this of 10? You know
constructor chaining calling in parameter construct by passing 10. Uh this of two parameter constructor for
calling 10 comma 0. Then observe here element data equal to new object of
initial capacity what 10 and capacity incremental capacity zero. Uh now finally tell me whatever the logic we
have written same logic is available in vector class. I told you either you are you develop or some micro systemystem
develop algorithm is same means same code you have to write one or two extra conditions will be extra will be there
because they are writing standard code. We are writing tumor code for a temporary purpose understanding purpose.
we are written we didn't follow all the test cases okay uh then v1 capacity capacity means what total number of
objects I can store means array dotlength uh in capacity method return
our array object dotlength here also arraylength size size is what I told how
many objects you have stored how many objects stored is available in the index variable and here count whatever logic
we develop in an collection same logic is available I want to print all elements for a printing purpose
Elements. Elements what are it? Simply v_sub_1. If you call v_sub1 implicitly
what is the method called? Two string method is called and elements are printed. Observe what is printed?
Capacity 10 size zero elements. Currently you have any elements collection or no elements. No elements.
Now I wanted to add elements. Everybody tell me I want to add elements. For
adding elements which method I have to take a add method. Uh no what you write v1 dot
adder I'm adding one string object any objection control F11 A is added
capacity changed no size changed yes capacity means what number of objects
can be stored size means what how many objects you have stored one object is stored size is increased capacity not
increased I'm adding one more object possible yes what this object homogeneous or heterogeneous
uh now repeat once again what is a vector vector is a legacy collection available from 1.0. Open this code and
see this available from 1.0. Vector is used for storing multiple objects in
insertion order. Insertion order. Look at their objects are storing insertion order only. Now I call add method A, add
method B. After a B coming uh next it is a synchronized collection means all its
methods are synchronized. Capacity method synchronized. Size method
synchronize. Add method synchronize. Every time object is locked. Every time
object is locked. Every time object is locked or unlocked. That is called synchronized. Uh then next.
Next. Now I want to add homo heterogeneous object. Five. Five is heterogeneous object in integer. What is
applied here? Autoboxing converted to integer. Allowed or not allowed? Allowed. So tell me vector accepts all
four types of objects homogeneous heterogeneous unique A is a unique object. B is unique object. Five is a
unique object. Uh next now I'm writing 6.7 allowed. Yes. I'm writing single
quote P character allowed. Yes. I'm writing boolean value true. Allow allowed. All are storing in insertion
order. Uh next I wanted to store I want to store null. Uh null is accepted or
not? Yes, accepted. Null is also accepted. How many total number of objects you have stored? Seven. Now I am
storing my own class object new ex of 5, 6. Uh, exclass is available or not
available? Not available. Control one create the class. How to create class? Control 1. Control 1 shortcut to create
the class. Class is ready. Inside this class, I want two non-static variable. private int x private index and then
private int. And I want to initialize x and y by constructor. Alt shift s
generate a constructor using fields generated shortcut. Eclipse shortcuts and then I want to generate setter
methods. Control shift s generate setter getter methods are setter methods. Alt a
alt r generated. I want uh now control f1. when you run this code you'll get
compile time error because I am creating example class by using uh comma comma I
should dot save it and know hey
and now look at the example object what is printed ex at the rate hash code I
don't want ex at the rate hash code I want example class data if you want to print example class data inside this
example class what is required two string method control shift Yes, two string method. Two string method is
overridden by Eclipse only. EX of X comma Y controll F11. Look at there
example class name exa 6 X value five Y value six. Clear my point. So totally
how many objects I added? Eight objects. Now can I add duplicate object? Yes.
Double quote say again I'm adding duplicate. Okay. Uh can I add can I add
again duplicate five? Five. Five is also duplicate. And now
look at that duplicate A5 is also allowed. And how many elements I have stored? 10. Capacity equal to 10. And
now vector is uh vector is growable. Vector is
growable. Now I am trying to add one more object. B1.add.
I am adding null duplicate null. I am adding allowed or not allowed. Allowed.
Then automatically capacity is increased. Look at there. Now size is what? 11 and capacity increases to
double 20. So now last what is available now. So all points are match the uh what
is vector? Vector is a legacy collection. It is available from Java 1.0. Uh in Java 1.2 to version it is
added as a implementation class of list interface. Let us see that vector open.
Uh it is a implementation of what? List. Okay. Uh next point is what? It is used
for storing multiple objects in multi-threaded environment in insertion order with index. Vector is
synchronized. Vector is order collection. Implement data structure is growable array. Because it is growable
array, what the default capacity and what is incremental capacity. All four types of objects are allowed. Null
allowed, multiple nulls allowed. It stores objects in insertion order. It allows us to retrieve elements either
randomly or sequentially. Now I want retrieve object. For retrieving object, what is the method available in the
class? System.out.print ln vector dot. What the method name? Get pass index
number. It returns object. Suppose I'm giving four. Yeah. Fourth index object we will get. What the fourth index? 0 1
2 3 4. Fourth index object is P. Okay. Uh I want retrieve object say 10. I am
giving 10th index object. We will get what the 10th index object null. Okay. Uh this is 10th index object. 11th
object is 10th index object. Null we got. Tell me can I add more objects here? Null. And I'm writing new example
of 5a 6. Same duplicate object I'm adding 5a 6. Accepted or not? Yes. Can I
add another object with the data 7 8? Yes. 7A 8 yes accepted or not yes uh now
I'm adding one more object 6.7 allowed or not allowed allowed
okay I can store any number of objects your wish okay finally next I want
retrieve all objects sequentially for retrieving all objects sequentially you have to write what for loop for index i
equal to zero i less than uh what v1 dot what method size i ++ system dot out dot
print. I want to take print method. Print of uh
v1 dot get of
we want to get off index i plus double quote space control f1. Now look at
there all elements whatever available all are coming or not. This is a random access and this is what sequential
access in place of for loop. Can I use for each loop also for accessing sequentially? Yes, for each loop also
you can use for open bracket closed bracket. What is the return type? Object
OBJ colon what you write? V1 system.out.print and OBJ. So system.out.print and place
plus double quotes. Uh look at there elements are coming or not? Uh can I use
can I use for each method? For each loop can I use for each method? Yes. How to
use for each method? V1 dot uh for each of what I should pass consumer consumer
means element okay element or object arrow system outp
place I'm using print uh obj plus uh now look at the
where is the red semicolon if you practice fingers will run fast if you
don't practice ice will run fast okay that's what are writing ray okay if
you practice fingers will run fast that's why I told you collection chapter only theory is in you but the program is
already completed only you have to practice thoroughly and come back again and again I'm say said next I want to
use stream API can I use stream API yes uh v1 dot what I should call stream dot
stream do stream dot for each I can use directly for each or I can use stream
dot For each what the difference between for each and stream dot for each for each can only retrieve and print. Stream
dot for each I can print in the middle before printing. Can I apply some filters here? Can I apply map here? Can
I apply extra operations to perform aggregate functions like wear conditions? Yes, that is the facility
again printed all elements. So these all what sequential printing? Uh it is what
random printing. Where is this? This is random axis.
Uh this is sequential axis.
Okay. I hope you all understand vector in vector or in a list or any collection
learning 10 points and know how to perform those 10 points. Okay. Uh then
tell me now what is the difference between vector and array list?
Vector and list. What is the difference? Only name is different. That is not
synchronized. This is synchronized except that everything is same. What do
you write now? A list place. Vector place. What you write? Array list.
Array list. Uh tell me a list is a
legacy collection array. Lexi collection collections framework collection
collections framework collection it is available from
it is available from 1.2 two version uh full stop. It is an implementation of
it is an implementation of uh which interface list. List list
interface. Okay. List. Next. Second. We must choose array list when whenever you
like you choose a no for storing multiple objects where in multi-threaded
application or in single thread application in single thread
single thread application with a thread safety or without thread safety without thread safety in
insertion order with index. Next uh error list is synchronized or
non-synchronized is not synchronized. It is not it is best in single thread
application not good in multi-thread application. Uh next error list is order
collection. Unordered collection order collection it maintains in certain
order. It implement data structure is growable array but people are calling it as resizable array. Growable, resizable,
both are same but people are calling it as resizable array. Default capacity 10
incremental capacity one or half not double. Vector is double array list
is what? Half. The only two differences between vector and arist. Vector is
huh vector is synchronized. A list is not synchronized. Vector vector
incremental capacity double array list incremental capacity half except that all points are same all four types of
objects are allowed null is allowed it stores insertion order retrie objects randomly and search and remove operation
inside contains and remove method internally equals method is called available constructor uh no param
constructor available collection parameter constructor available int capacity constructor available but
incremental capacity not in your hand capacity increment and not in your hand. So from Java 1.2 onwards, Sun
Microsystem telling that capacity is not your business, it's my business because it's a performance. If you choose as you
like, performance issues will come only think about size and capacity, I will take care of it, you don't worry. And
then now what object I have to create here? Test zero to which collection array list and now vector place array
list of object new array list. Uh now here v1 place control shift r. If you
want to change a variable name all places in the project you have to write control shift r replace v1 all places
removed a all places added. Okay. Now in the current java file other java files.
What the difference between control f replace and control shift r replace.
Control f replace will replace only the current java file. So if you want to replace wherever it is used in other
Java file within the complete project you have to use control shift or eclipse material you read all shortcuts I gave
there look at there capacity method is throwing error because eristic capacity
you cannot get capacity is not in your hand capacity will be taken care by sun micro system your target is only
thinking about size and okay capacity not there what the size of array list
zero what the elements available error No elements. Can I add all types of objects? Yes. How many added? 10
objects. All 10 objects are stored in a insertion order. Capacity allowed not allowed. Next. Can I store extra
objects? Yes. Then any problem? No. Because a list is a resizable array increased. Next. Random access. I can
use the same get method. Random access will come. Sequential access by using for for regular for loop. Sequential
access by using for each loop. Sequential access by using for each method. and stream API by passing lambda
expression why I have not used method reference here
why I use lambda expression why I have not used method reference
we are calling object object print method I'm calling I'm passing object
parameter object only I'm passing as a argument but I have written extra
okay uh if you want write something extra print uh you know method reference you cannot use the parameter you are
calling one method to pass lambda parameter as argument that's it you are not writing anything extra then only
method reference here I want to write extra space that's why lambda expression only we can use that's all list
completed understand I told you now vector list
what is the difference program difference memory difference memory difference tell me when we create vector
object vector object created with how many internal variables two element data element count element data pointing to
10 location object array when I store 10 objects new array object is created with how many locations 20 if it is a list
of same as
not both are same but here both are same vector 10 points then vector memory
diagram add method object is locking unlocking this the Complete dive
new noa. If you practice NIT collection, no. If
you didn't practice NIT collection, new okay uh vector object element count
element data 10 allocation array created. Then I started passing elements. Don't worry about that
contents method. Okay. Only concentrate on memory. And then now after storing 10 elements, 11th element I am trying to
store. When I'm trying to store 11th element, what happen? uh new array created with 20 locations and new
reference is stored. Old reference gone. Object is eligible for garbage collection. Two points are here. Come
when I store string object again repeated double quotes repeated. Then is it create new
object same old reference is taken up. Next I store five duplicate. If I store
five duplicate remember wrapper class object pooling is there. Autoboxing object pooling. Object pooling is
applied on wrapper class buffer. What value range? Byte range. Five is in the byte range. So new object created a old
object reference used. Old object reference used point 6.7 is it in the
bite range? No. If I store 6.7 old object is used or new object created.
New object created and point. Next if I repeat P or true new object created or
not created. P. What are the asking number of P? If
it is in the byte range, new object not created. If it is exceeding the bite range, new object created. If I repeat
true, new object created or not created. Not
created. For true and false, new object not created. Okay. You have to draw this memory after going to vector class
completely. You have to type and with your hand you have to run the flow of execution by drawing the memory diagram.
Step one, step two, step three, step four. What happen? Next error list. Tell me vector list. What is the difference?
Just internal variable names and the size. Uh error list all the 10 points
and then error list locking unlocking or no locking unlocking. No locking. Then
this is the vector diagram. This is a vector diagram with how many locations increased double with locking
14 times locked. Uh if it is error list locking there or not there no locking
and size half 14.
Okay. And these are the difference between a list and vector. A list it is a collections frame
collection available from 1 vector legacy collection available from 1.0. A list is not synchronized. Vector is
synchronized suitable to use in single thread model application. ML and machine
learning multi-reading
ML machine learning Java machine learning
Python and machine learning method local
single thread and what method local okay single thread model application or method local operation suitable for MTM
multi-thread model application should not use at class level in multi-thread model application ation gives wrong
results. Should not use in single thread model application and method local operation. It gives less performance
because locking and unlocking it incremental capacity half
the current capacity. It's incremental capacity is double the current capacity. Next very important we cannot specify
capacity increment. We can specify capacity increment. We cannot retrieve a list capacity. We can retrieve a list
capacity. Very very important. both array list and vector allow null multiple nulls
people understand uh will you practice these two collection classes today if you practice tomorrow classes will be
easy I hope you observe from yesterday to today I increase the speed
no uh tomorrow double speed will be there
first today when I'm teaching collection did I run fast very slowly I talk
because all the words are new. Next when I'm explaining global array algorithm did I run the slides? No. Everything I
drawn and shown people who practiced NIT collection class test NIT collection
class and the memory diagram today class you feel okay already I know.
So people who didn't practice
you'll see stars daytime stars will you see that's why
what to do practice uh now I'm uploading a list
10 points. You have to buy hot
If you practice error list program and its memory diagram tomorrow link list
will be easy. If you neglect come tomorrow without practicing linkal list you will see
hell. If you practice link list then next class stack after all
then next class hashmap internals has a set of hashmap internals I explained that time people who don't practice a
list and link list uh hashmap you will cry like anything literally will cry
tears will come blood tears will come practice and come thank you that's all
for today class upload to both
Yeah.
functioning.
Widening means super lambda function.

