sript


Right. Good morning everyone. Yeah, last class we have completed up to two set implementation. Today we will
try to understand next collections
map. Okay. Map hashmap link hashmap
hashmap internals.
Okay. So this is the today class agenda.
now. So tell me what is a map?
What is a map? Map is a collection. What the difference
between collection and map? What is the difference between
collection and map?
Collection is a collection. It stores object without mappings.
Map is also collection. It stores objects with mappings. And now I'm
taking I want to store data. My name. Okay.
my ID and uh
experience and subject I want if I write like this if I store
data like this this is a collection but it doesn't have any information the
values doesn't have information now I'm taking another collection where I can
provide information here what is This is called key and this is called
val. So now here I'm writing employee number, employee name, experience and
then subject. Okay, these are called keys and I'm
storing value 7279 HK 20 Java. We are writing like this.
This is called our map. Okay. Now tell if you want to create a collection
object we use constructor. If you want to create map object also what I use constructor. If you want to store object
in the okay next what is the implement data structure background array. Okay
implement data structure collection data structure array or what node. Okay. Now
in the map if you want to store what is the implemented data structure. The implement data structure is hash table.
What the data structure? Hash table. So what is a table? Table is nothing but
columns and rows. So here table by default have how many columns? Two columns. How many rows? And number of
rows. Then why this table is called hashed table. Objects are arranged in
the table based on the hash code of the object. That's why it is called what?
Hash table. Okay. How the hash code is used? What is hash code? We will also understand. Second point, a hash table
is a combination of key, value pair. Key, comm, value pair. Then what is the
key here? The key is nothing but identity. So what is the value? Value is
nothing but the actual object you wanted to store. Here we are whatever the objects you are storing. Same objects
I'm storing here but with a identity. So that is called map. Next, if you want to
store a object inside collection, we will use a method called what? Add if you want to store object. Uh, now tell
me here we call it as object. No, in the map in the collection point of view, we
call object as object as element. What do we call element here? Here we are
storing one object or two objects two objects. We are storing two objects as one object. That two objects together is
called entry. What we call entry. Entry is nothing but key, value pair is called
entry. For storing the object or entry. For storing object or that element. What
will be used here? Add method. We will use add of object. Now for storing
objects in the map, what I should use here? I should use a method called what? Put. What is another name? Put. Put
contain key, val. Next add method return type is boolean. If object is stored
returns true. If object is not stored returns false but put method return type is object. Put me return type is object.
So why it is returning object? When we store this is a map object. Initially map object is what? Empty. Now I'm
calling put of by giving double quotes a comma say 97. And now tell me here in
this map object do you have the key double quotes a already? No. Then it will add a and 97 as a entry. Now I'm
calling put of again double quotes a comma I'm writing 90. Okay something
called 98 I'm writing uh then what happen when you call second time put
method verify is the key double quotes already available? Yes. Now tell me the
you are adding the you are adding the key is a unique key or duplicate here duplicate when it is a duplicate put
method feels that oh this programmer is asking me to replace this object this
programmer asking me replace this object then this double quotes a is not replace
its value 98 is 97 is replaced with 98 and the old value 97 will be returned to
our program that's return type is what? Object. So now repeat again when you try
to store object inside the map first it is storing the existing key and value.
If the key is already available it replaces the existing value with new value and old value return to our
program. So this is the complete story about map. So what is a map? Map is a
collections framework collection. When you want to store object with mapping I should use map.
Map is having uh eight implementations. Among them, tree map is the
implementation of sorted map. When we want to store objects, when you want to store entries in a hash code order, I
must use hashmap. When I want to store entries insertion order, I have to use what? Linked hash. If you want to store
entries in sorting order, I must use tree map. Let me try to create a
program. Sorry.
Did you practice reset?
Okay. Now let me create uh tell me now when should you use hashmap
for story
unique entries in which order? Hash code order. We must
use hash for storing objects with mappings
in a hash code. In the in hash code order, we must use hashmap.
Hashmap maintains objects I mean entries
in the key object key objects hash code order let me write
first I'm creating hashmap object hashmap hm equal to uh what person key
strings I want okay all types of objects I want value also all types of object hm
equal to new hashman. Okay. Then hm dot put off. Hm.
Uh hm.ut off. Okay. First let me print uh
system.out.print l and hm dot size. How many elements are there? How many
elements are entries? Entries. Zero entries available. Now observe if I print a hashmap object. Yesterday we got
square bracket. Today we will get flower bracket. Okay. Map is printed by flower
bracket arrangement. Uh now I wanted to carefully observe
system.out.print ln hm dot of I'm adding double quote say
comma one. Uh now tell me is this key added or not? Yes. After adding what put
method will return null because
uh because why this key is not available now because
key is not available. This entry is not available. It returns what? Null. Okay. Null. And available object is a equal to
1. Now I'm trying to store again same a object with another value
two. Now is it a duplicate key or when you try to store duplicate key in the
set nothing happened in the map existing key value existing key value one replace
with two and old value one return to our program printed on console.
Look at there one size increased or not increased not increased. Why size is not increased? Because the new entry is
stored and not stored. Not stored because new entry not stored. Size is what? Still one. Uh next. Now I am
trying to store uh double quotes B. I'm storing double quotes B with value with
value three. And tell me is it stored or not stored? Stored. Okay. With value three I'm storing. Uh now tell with
three. If I try to store what happen? Any existing values are replaced or not replaced? Not replaced. So control F11
what happened directly B value is stored and defa returns what default value null
uh next now I'm trying to store here uh can I store heterogeneous object five
yes and key I'm taking as four uh five four is stored in which order is stored
hash code order now I'm trying to store now uh yesterday like same example 6.7
and five I'm storing 6.7 is stored with five uh look at there what happened 6.7 7
equal to five. Uh next I'm trying to store single quote P single quote P six
I am storing. Then based on its hash code it will store where it depend it come to the first place. Next now I'm
trying to store uh true true equal to 7. Uh what happen? Based on its hash code
it will store there. So objects are arranging based on the hash code. Null equal to 8. Is null allowed? Yes. Null
allowed. Okay. Uh next. How many nulls are allowed? How many nulls are allowed? Only one null as a key allowed. If you
try to store null again, old value is replaced. Look at there. Null equal to previous value eight. Now replace with
what? Nine. And previously eight. Return to our program. Uh next, can I store our
own class object? Yes. New ex of 5, 6 allowed. Allowed. Uh now where it is
stored based on the hash code, it will go under store. Okay. Somewhere here in the middle it is stored. Now I am trying
to store 98 98 equal to 11 where 98 stored
after okay 97 97 after a after a entry a = 2 97 equal to null now I'm writing 98
equal to 12 uh where it will be stored after b after b 98 is stored so how the
hash code is arranged the entries hash code sorry how the hashmap arrange the entries hashmap arranges entries based
on has code which has code value has code key has code key has code next a key can
be duplicate or cannot be duplicate cannot be duplicate a value can be duplicate yes value can be duplicate but
key cannot be duplicate now I'm trying to write uh say something called here 99
and I'm writing same 12 accepted or not yes so 99 stored 99 stored and following
by what 12 okay huh then so finally we got clarity on hashmap how it is
working. Hashmap stores the data in a key value pane format. To store the data in key value pane format how it is
stored. So now understand the functionality key can be key can be only unique value can be duplicate. uh tell
me can I store let's say here I'm writing here um something called one uh
here I'm writing here I'm writing null allowed or not allowed is null allowed as a value yes as a key allowed as a
value also allowed can I store duplicate values yes already we have seen okay
null can I store duplicate yes to equal to null again store okay uh then fine
finally try to answer now what the point you need to understand Here hashmap is
used for storing objects with mappings. Hashmap stores the objects in key object
hash code order. A key can be only unique value can be duplicate. If you
try to store duplicate key, existing previous value is replaced with a new
value. Old value returned to our program. This is the story about hashmap
functionality. Now the next question is what is the hashmap internals? Okay, we
completed what is map? We completed what is map. Map is a interface. Okay, it is
a root interface of all map type collections. When we want to store objects in mappings then we should use
what map. Then what is the map implementation? Hashmap is the hashmap
is a collections framework collection. It is an implementation of map. It is available from Java 1.2. When we want to
store objects with the mappings then we should use a hashmap. Hashmap internally stores object with mapping with a key
mapping. Uh here it stores the entry key and value is called entry. It store the entry based on the key hash code order.
Now I wanted to go for next topic is what? Hashmap internals. So what is the hashmap internal? Hashmap internal is
nothing but what is the array? Array list internal. Array list internal is nothing but what is the memory structure? When you create array list
object background what is the memory created? If I create a stack object what
is the background memory created? If I create link list object what the background memory created? That
background memory is nothing but internals. Now let me explain you how it stores internals. Point number one here
hashmap internal means you have to learn two points. Point number one memory structure. you have to learn. Number
two, algorithm for arranging the objects and stopping duplicates. These two
points if you tell to interviewer then that is called hashmap internals compulsory asking question. Now first
point hashmap internally uses hash table data structure. Data structure name is
what? Hash table like growable array like stack like link list like Q hash
table is also one data structure. Hashmap internally uses hasht data structure for storing the entries.
Second, how this hash has table data structure is implemented. Okay, how the
growable array algorithm is implemented? Growable array algorithm implemented by using array. How the link list data
structure is implemented by using nodes. How the stack is implemented again by using array only. Okay, like that. How
the hash table data structure is implemented? Hash table data structure is also implemented by using by using by
using by using array only. Okay. H table data structure is also
implemented by using array only. Sir if you create array which array suppose say
object array. If you create object array object array contains what? Locations 1
2 3 4 five locations. In this location one should contain what? First entry.
Second location contains what? Second entry. Entry contains key comma value.
In a in a entry how can I store key comma value? Okay. In one location I can
store only key. How to store value? Next location. No one location one
entry. Uh so further they don't use object array. Object array can store only one object. Tell me can I create my
own class? Can I create my own class? Inside this class can I store first
object, second object, third object, fourth object, fifth object, any number of objects. For that what I have to do?
I must create referenced variables. Reference variable. Reference variable. Reference variable create. Uh for
example, A object I want to store. What variable I have to create? A reference B object I want to store. What variable?
B. C object I want to store. Then what? C understand uh now sun micro system has
created internally one class called node and
node yesterday already have seen where link list okay class node inside class
node they have created two variables number one key number two v or you can
say key and value two variable variables they are created key and value. What
type of key? Uh object. What the type of key? Object.
What type of value? Object. Uh tell me but Java following object
style. Generic style. Generic style. Right. Uh when generic
style here I should not write object object. Tell me what is the generic code?
What is the generic code? Come on. After node,
uh after node, angular bracket
k, v open bracket. Here what I write?
K key v. At the time of hashmap object creation you are specifying the type
here. Now that type will come as a key here. This type is coming as what value
and this key and b will be substitute. Okay clear? Now I want to store first
key double quotes a and its value one. I want to store double quotes a comma one.
Tell me when I pass to the put method put of where this double quotes say and
one should store inside this node object key and value now. So what put method is
doing background creating one new node object node n1 equal to new node of new
node of whatever the values you are passing that is passing here key value.
Uh if you call put method second time, second node object, third time, third node object, fourth time, fourth node,
fifth time, fifth node, right? Where all these nodes must be stored in the hashmap object. In the hashmap object,
uh if you want to store all these object, I want to store one student, what required student type variable. If
you want to store multiple students, what I required student array. Similarly in a hashmap object I want to store all
these nodes. To store all these nodes I should create node variable or node array variable. Node array. Node array
object is created with what is the default capacity? 16.
What the default capacity? 16. 0 to 15. 15 location. Which object is created?
Node array object is created. Uh then first node is stored here. Okay. Node
zero index. Uh first one is what? Double quotes a comma 1. Second node second key
double quotes b comma two. Third key third entry stored in third location.
So all people understand now what is doing hashmap internally. Hashmap internally uses hashtable data
structure. How this hash table data structure is implemented? Hash table data structure is implemented by using
Hash table data structure is implemented by using what node array. Okay. Up to
now first point is understand right. The next very important the memory diagram will be like this.
The memory diagram represented like this. Tell me yesterday stack stack memory diagram we created as arena or
stack structurer. Stack structure. What the stack structure means? Uh double box
like this, right? And then we have make the array stand reverse
0 1 2 3 4 5 right. Uh now it is a table.
Okay. Table has table data structure is what? Table. This is the node array.
Table means what? Key. Sorry, table means what? rows 1 2 3 4 each row
representing by one index number. So that's why array is not horizontal.
Array is now vertical. Row table means vertical. Now and now
this is first location, second location, third location, fourth location, fifth
location, sixth location, seventh location, eighth location like that. How many locations? 16. 0 1 2 3 4 5 dot dot
dot dot 15. Totally how many locations are there? 16 location.
Now tell me what happened. Hashmap HM equal to new hashmap. What happened? Hm variable is created.
Hm variable is created and hashmap object is created. Inside ash map object
what is there node uh sorry node array now table what the name of this variable
will be table why table because h has table uh now this table contain this
node array object so the first point hashmap internally use internally uses h has table data structure for storing
entries hash table data structure is implemented by using node array third
point uh tell me node array contains what index numbers Now when you write
put off double quotes a comma 1. Next I'm writing put off put off double
quotes b comma 2. When I write like this where double quotes a entry has to go on
store zero location one location two location three location or which location?
If it is a array list by default it is storing in zero increased by 11 one that
is called insertion order. But in a hash table you want to store entries in insertion order or hash code order. Uh
the index number is decided. This entry index number is decided based on what?
Hash code number. And tell me double quotes a hash code number is what? 97.
How this hash code number will be retrieved? Hash code number is retrieved by using one predefined method. What is
this object? Can I say K1 K1 dot put method to
retrieve the internal hash code of this object? It implicitly calling what? Hash code. So tell me hash code of the object
is decided by hashmap class. Uh come on. Hashmap object hash sorry
this object hash code is decided by this double code say object hash code is decided by hashmap object the string
class itself string class yesterday in which order objects store decided by tree set the same adding object adding
object. So what is the hash code number of the string object is decided by string class itself inside string class
hash code method must be overridden by default this hash code method is available in superclass object
java.clangobject class superclass object contain what hash code method in the hash code this hash code method by
default available in the java.lang object class from java.lang lang object class hash code method returns this
object reference wise hash code what it return hash code is generated based on
what reference but I don't want with reference I want with what data if you
want data wise hash code hash code method must be overridden in string object in string object hash code method
is already overridden and from there what the number you are getting 97
okay uh hash code is a one identity of the object. It is one integer number.
32-bit integer number. Repeating again. Hash code is a identity of the object.
It is a 32-bit integer number. Second point, hash code is used. What the use
of hash code? Hash code is used in a hashtable data structure for arranging
the objects in the hash code order. Hash code is used in a hashtable data
structure for arranging the objects in the hash code order. Third point, hash
code of the object is generated with the predefined method called what? Hash code method. Hash code method is available in
java.lang.object class. In java.lang do object class. Hashcode method is by default
implemented by using reference of the object. Uh now this double quotes say object reference is 10. Hash code of the
object is also 10. If this object reference is 2020, hash code of the object is also 2020. Who will generate
the reference of the object? JVM. Then uh who will generate the sorry who will generate the reference of the object?
JVM. Then hash code of the object is also generated by JVM only. So this hash
code method if it is executed from object class by default we will get reference wise hash code. Tell me if I
arrange the objects and reference wise hash code as per my project requirement. Can I arrange them? No. For that what I
have to do? I must generate the hash code based on the data. And tell me if I
allow you to sit as you like. You will sit entire the class wherever corner you want. Then I want you sit as per my
requirement then I'm giving instruction to you. Don't go to the back chairs. Always come to the front chairs. I gave
the instruction and what I did your decision overridden by my decision. That
is called what? Overriding. So the hash code method which is available in object class must override in subclass. What
the currently adding object class string in string class hash code method must have already overridden. If not
overridden what is the problem? Reference wise hash code number is generated with reference wise hash code
number. Can I arrange them as related objects? No. Uh now in string class hash
code method is overridden to return hash code number based on the data. What the data available? character string object
contains what character. The character contain ask number ask number is the hash code of the object. So this
character a a ask number is what 97 uh 97 is the hash code. Now this 97 is
the index of this location understood. So if you want to arrange
your objects inside the hash table internally hash code is used. How the
hash code is coming? by using the method hash code. Hash code method return this index number as what? 97. Now this 97 is
used as index to store this object in this table. Hello. What is the table background array? What is the size of
this array? 16. What the index number start? 0 0 to 16 0 to 15. Where is 97?
Where it will be stored? For that purpose, this 97 is divided by the
capacity of the hashmap. What the capacity of the hashmap? 16. I'm take
quotient or remainder. This is not division operator. It is remainder operator. I'm taking what
remainder. What the remainder? One. 97 by 16 is one. Now tell me where now this
object is going on storing it one location. Here what happened? Can you
store their double quotes and one? No, no, no, no. Internal it create what? Node object. It create node object with
how many variables? Key and value. Uh in the key variable
key object a stored in the value variable value object one store. And this
reference is assume that this is a hashmap is 10 and node object is what
2020. Now 2020 is stored on point.
Everyone understand? And this node object hash code is what? 97.
This is how it will store. This is the hashmap internals. So tell me hashmap internal center and
how many points you have to understand? Two points. Number one memory structure. Number two algorithm. What is algorithm?
The hash code calling hash code method. When you call put method first it is calling what? Hash code method. Hash
code method return a hash code number. Hash code number division by 16 takes the remainder. That reminder is the
index number. Is it clear? Can you explain all these points to enter your 1 second? 5%
completed still 95% there. How this 5% is
difficult remaining 95% is easy. All people understand 5%.
Now this 5% again you apply for second entry. I want to store this entry. How will you store this entry? Tell me again
it will call what? K2 dot hash code
semicolon. Uh what is the number? 98. 98 mod
16. Uh what the index number two in the second index do you have any node empty?
Uh that means new node is created.
New heck new node is created with what? Key
value in a key object be stored in a value object
to stored and a hash value is what? 98 and his reference is 20 20
30 student
okay now any doubts now the doubt will come
now I'm writing put dot
Put double quotes a comma three
stored or not stored. Now answer my question. Stored or not
stored? Not store. Then what happened? Replace. Not store replaced. Put method finding
this key is already available. Huh? I know how put method knows that key is
already available. You can know why? Because you have big guys using big eyes. Yay. Yay.
Available. So what you do directly go available. Replace this one with what?
Two and stored with your eyes. You can say but program how we can say uh with
your eyes what are you doing? You are taking this a with your I you are
comparing with this aod are same that's why replace so that comparison logic
your eyes comparison logic you have to develop how that comparison logic executed first of all if you wanted to
find this a object I have to go to this node location to come to this node
location I have to come to one location to come to one location I have to use a hash code. Now
are you following my point? Every object when you add first to what is called
K3 dot hash code.
Uh what the hash code number coming 97 97 mode 16 what you got
one in the one index in one index already key is available or not when key
is available tell me when you buy when you book the ticket you want to travel
train ticket you book by the time you reach to the train in your seat already one person occupied
the seat What he'll do? He will request him. Ba it's my street.
Can you please get out? He look at your face and say
how is it your seat? Why? It is my seat. Look at the reservation ticket reservation date
everything you're showing. He also open the same ticket and say look at my my seat is there. This is same date. Same
thing I have register uh what do you call book this ticket reserve the ticket then what you people both will do now
uh started fighting that fighting is called what collision okay now started colliding uh
now tell me this object index number is one in the one index already object is
available then this concept is called hash collision
like how you are fighting in the real life in the programming world also. Uh now this K3 is fighting with what? K1
you are occupied my place then K3 will say I mean that the first object is say
okay okay once you go and say this is my seat is it accepting no what are you doing now
comparing okay show me your ticket and I'll show my ticket both tickets you are seeing what date you book what seat you
book on what name you book journey everything you are comparing nowh so tell me whenever a collision happened
directly going and occupying the sea comparing and taking decision. Uh so
whenever hash code of the two objects are same then comparison is started. How
many ways we can compare object? I can compare objects in two ways.
Okay. I can compare objects in two ways. Number one by using reference. Number
one by using reference. Number two by using data. Uh first reference is
compared by using double equal to operator. Tell me double quotes a reference is what already stored now
111. Second double quotes a reference is also 111. K3 reference is 111. K1
already stored reference is also 111. When both references are same uh double
equal to operator returns what? True. If double equal to operator returns true
then put method come to your decision. Okay, it is equal same object. When same
object what happen? The existing value is replaced. So tell me when you store
first key only hash code method is called because hash collision is not occurred. When you store second object
directly stored because hash collision is not occurred. Uh when you're trying to store third object hash collision is
occurred. Whenever hash collision is occurred then immediately what happen? Comparison is started to see that this
is the same object or different object. It is same object or different object. Same object because of same object then
returns what? True. And then now the existing value is replaced. Everyone understand?
This is called what? Algorithm. Algorithm is nothing but finding the adding key is unique or duplicate. How
to find unique or duplicate? First hash code is called with the hash code number if any already object is available then
comparison will be started. Next question. Now I'm taking put method one more time. Show your talent. Put of I am
writing here new string of double quotes a comma. I am writing a four. New string
of double quotes a comma four. Uh tell me here again put method what is doing? It is calling on this object. Can I
consider as a K4 dot? What is calling hash code? Because it's a position. We
have to know what is its index number to find. First it is called hash code method. Hashcode method internally. What
is doing uh returns what? 97 because hash code method is overridden in the
string class and its number is written 97. 97 model 16 equal to what value?
One. Tell me hash collision is occurred or not with the with this with this hash
code number already there is a object. So what happened? Hash collision is occurred. Whenever hash collision is
occurred immediately comparison is started with what? K4 object is compared
with already available object what K1 returns true now false sir false because
it is a literal object it is literal object and this is what new keyword object their references are different
when references are different they are unique key and what it is unique key
reference wise unique maybe data wise duplicate uh to compare objects with the data already we discussed long long back
in string handling chapter wrapper classes chapter what is K4 dot equals K4 dot equals of bypassing
what and tell me equals is a operator method method where originally this
method is defined object class not string class object class okay hash code
method two string method two string method hash code method equals method
all these three methods are originally defined in which class object class from the object class these three methods are
overriding inside subasses I want to print my object data override to string
method. I want to generate hash code based on my object data override hash code method. I wanted to compare two
objects by using data override to equals method. So by default two string method,
hash code method and equals methods are available in the object class to work on
reference of the object. uh now if you if you don't override two string method objects class name at the rate hash code
is printed based on reference hash code method if you don't override hash code
is generated based on the reference if you don't override equals method based on the reference objects are compared no
I want data of the object wanted to return override two string method I want to generate hash code method based on
the object of the data of the object then override hash code method I want to compare two objects by using data of the
objects then override equals method in a string class in all wrapper classes two
string hash code equals methods are overridden that's why uh we are when you
print a string object data printed when you call hash code method data wise hash code number generated when you compare
two string objects by using equals method data of the objects are compared is it clear in string class equals
method is overridden yes for what purpose reference comparison or data comparison data compar
What is the K4 data? A. K1 data A. A equal to A. Yes. Then what it return?
True. True means duplicate. Duplicate means it is added.
Existing value replaced. Existing value replace with Okay. Existing one more new
object is created with what data? Four. Existing value replace. And old value eligible for garbage sculpture.
So finally tell me how hashmap can stop duplicate object. How hash set link hash
set hashmap link hashmap hash table weak hashmap identity hashmap
a collection class that contain the word hash in their name. A collection class
that contain the name hash in their name stops duplicate objects by using three
two methods. What the two methods? Hash code method, double equal to operator and equals method. First it compare the
first it will take the hash code of the object. If hash code of this object is new directly stored. If the hash code of
this object is equal to existing object hash code then it compares the object
with the other objects and then take the decision to store or not. Uh tell me it
compares first reference by using double equal to operator. then compares with equals method compares with the data
using equals method. If hash code equals methods are not overridden references
comparison will be done. If overridden data comparison will be done hope you all understand now uh now I will take
one more example let me try to take let me take one more test case I'm writing here put off where I should write
Put of 97, 5
from one entry to another entry. Algorithm is changing a same algorithm. Same algorithm. What is algorithm? First
call hash code with the hash code number go to index. In that index location if
object is not available store with the index number already object is available compare and take decision either to
replace or store clear here first what is called can I call it
as a k5 k5 dot hash code
what it return uh hash code method is now executing
from which class 97 class. What the 97 class? Integer. Integer is a wrapper
class. In wrapper class is hash code method overridden. Come on, you know already. Overridden already.
If it is overridden, what written? Data wise hash code number is written. What the data? 97. Uh 97 mod 16. What
happened? One. What happened
in one index? Already object is available. Now then store a compare
compare compare K5 first with a double equal to operator. K5 double equal to K1
returns what? Trouble
double quotes say reference and this one how it can be same right returns what? False. Next. Now if returns false
compare with what? Equals method. K5 dot
equals of K1. Uh what? True or false?
Equals method. Comparing K5 with the K1. Ray. First of all to compare their types
are equal or not equal. When types are not equal, how comparison can be done?
Not possible. Also returns what? False. And tell me false means it this key is
duplicate or unique. Unique means it has to store. Now how
yellow already location
already in the one location already have object how it can be stored?
You go to supermarket. You wanted to buy the items whatever you want. How many hands you have? How many
items you can hold? Two. But you want how many hold? More than two. What will
you do? Huh? What you'll use? Basket.
You are using one basket. How many baskets for you? One basket. Other person
another basket. One more person. One more basket. Each person is a one index number.
I am one index one basket. Other person second index one basket. Another person one index one more basket. That means
every index background one more collection is there.
Each index number is one basket. Each index number is one basket.
In a supermarket we call it as a basket. In a hash table we call it as
bucket. What we call bucket. Bucket
in a supermarket we call basket or trally. Here we call it as what? Bucket.
Now tell me how many buckets are created as of now?
How many buckets are created as of now? Two buckets created.
16 locations are created but not buckets. Tell me when the basket will
come into the supermarket when a person came. If person not there the basket
there outside of the supermarket. Uh so tell me when the new bucket is created.
New bucket is created only when new hash code object you store. I store first new
hash code object 97 97 bucket is created. I store second bucket 98 98
bucket is created. Are you following? Now I am trying to store second object
with the same hash code number 97. New bucket created. Store it in the same bucket. Store it in the same bucket.
store it in the same bucket. Uh then when the new hash code sorry when the same hash code number with different
reference and different data if it is coming we call it as what unique object. This unique object also should store in
the same bucket. Tell me how the object stored in the same bucket. Uh another
node is created. Uh then here key value key object is
what? 97. Value object is what? Five.
Hash code is what? 97. Once upon a time, long long ago,
yesterday long ago, no. Yesterday, you have learned link list data structure. In a
link list data structure, what is the internal objects? You have used node. Whenever I say node, immediately your
mind should say, hey, background it is a link list. So tell me what is a bucket?
Bucket is also one data structure. It is implemented by using link list. Which
link list? Double link list. Single link list. Single link list.
Single link list. Because you have only one index. Now when you have only one index, why you want double index? Double
link list. Okay. Single link list. The first node is pointing to second node.
Second node pointing to third. So finally tell me what is the memory structure of hashmap? Hashmap completed
hashmap internal server. Hashmap means two points. Number one memory structure. Number two algorithm. Hashmap internally
maintains objects or stores objects by using hashtable data structure. Hashtable data structure internally uses
bucket data structure for storing the same hash code objects as a one group.
Hash table is implemented by using node array. Bucket is implemented by using link list data structure.
By default, hash table data structure node array created with 16 locations. The hashmap default capacity is 16.
The bucket data structure is created a new in the hash table data structure. A bucket data structure is created when we
store new hash code object. Uh now tell me 16 locations means 16 objects 16
buckets. 16 buckets means 16 objects are 16
different hash code objects. 16 different hash code objects. For
example, if I store 100 objects with the same hash code number, then tell me how
many locations are filled. What is the capacity? 16. 100 objects I stored but
capacity is what? 16. What is the size? 100.
Size will be always not bucket. Size is what? Object. Size is object. Okay. Let
me tell sir confused. This building has how many floors?
This building has how many floors? Four floor. I think not counted. Daily coming
for last four months. He never checked. Yeah. This building has four floors. Okay. Uh now four floors with how many
rooms? Each floor has a two rooms.
Capacity is what? Capacity. Capacity is four. How many floors we
have? Four. Four floors is the capacity. That means half table is the apartment.
Each floor is one bucket. In each floor, how many flats are there? Multiple flats
are there. Understand? Now tell me your school. School school you
take. How many classes running in the school?
10 classes. 10th class. School 10th class.
How many class? How do I know? 10 classes. Okay. How
many rooms are there in the school? 10. Uh tell me can you consider school
as a has table? Yes. Each classroom is
bucket. In each bucket students are object. All object hash
code is same. First class 60 student. Okay. School and 30 students are okay.
30 30 students. Second hash code 90. Second class class 2 30. Third class
class three 30. Fourth class, class 3. Each student hash code number is same.
What is that? Class one. In that your data is the same or different
uh hash code method of your object and your friend object is the same. But your
data student number your friend data student number is same or different?
Different same hash code objects with the different data stored in the same
bucket. Different hash code objects are stored in the different bucket. Understand? Now two students come to the
school main game. Okay. Now the principal standing there and asking
which class you are first class sir. Hey which class you are? Second class. I go
any comparison or no comparison. No comparison. Now already one student sitting in the classroom. Second student
is coming. He told which class? First class already first class one student there show your ID card that student ID
card your ID card both are now comparing and then going on sitting in that are you following so tell me now has table
data structure is nothing but your school okay if you remember your school has
table data structure is easy next question I got a doubt when I was
learning this topic in this entire story what is The algorithm of hashmap, hashmap should
stop duplicate objects. For stopping duplicate objects, we have to compare the newly adding object with
the existing object. How many objects are available in the collection? Say 1 cr objects are there. Now 1 cr one
object I am trying to store this 1 cr one object to decide it is a duplicate or not. It has to compare with all 1 cr
objects. Now is it a timet process performance issue? Huh?
Suppose you take your school. Now this doubt I got so I analyze. So I'm just trying to put all the points in front of
you so that easy for you to understand. If you take your school one day my
father came to the school. We want to go to morning not decision. When I was coming to the school not decision
suddenly I came to my old days. Okay. Uh my father suddenly came I hate the
school. Okay. Every day I used to find when I got a chance to skip the school.
I love going to the I'm I love going to my agriculture farms with my father and
taking care of my farms. I love more farming not studying childhood here. I don't know why. Okay. Then I everyday
try to find you know stomach pain, headache because as a child fever if I say they can find stomach pain if I say
they cannot find headache I can say they cannot find that is the reasons I find but one day I don't have a chance went
to the school that day social homework I didn't complete so my I know my social teacher is the
worst you know always trying to beat me on so I was waiting praying god what to
do what to do so suddenly I got one message yes sir
Your father came went really thank you.
What happened here? Understand the situation. My father went to the principal
and told to principal that I want my son to take back to the home. We need to goati.
Then he called the pun. School pun will be there. Now go and bring Krishna. Then
pun started going to bring Krishna. What he's doing? Uh he's taking the
information. What information? Hash code.
What information taking? Say 10th class, first class to 10th
class all students are dumped in one room. Searching take lot of time. What school
arranged? First class all students in first class. Group created second class. All students
are stored in second class. Third class, all students are stored in third class. Fourth class, all students are stored in
fourth class. That means what happened? Groups divided. When divided into groups, now the pun is searching from
first class to last class. Directly come to seventh class. That time I was studying seventh class. Directly come to
seventh class. And then seventh class. How many students are comparing now? 30
students. How many students are there? 1 cr. 1 cr to how many students you are
comparing? 30. Number of comparisons are decreasable. So tell me hash code is
meant for comparing the objects are grouping the objects.
Hash code is not meant for comparing. Hash code is meant for what? Grouping and further finding that group. So
storing time first time I'm storing. So first I have to create the group. To create the group I should know first of
all the group is available or not. So for finding the group if not available for creating the group hash code will be
used. What is the advantage with the hash code? With the adv hash code advantage is number of comparisons will
be decreased. The related objects we are storing as a one group. So that number of comparisons will be decreased.
Everyone understand? Then who will compare double equal to operator equals method. Now double equal to operator
equals method you are using under hash code. First you are taking the hash code
by finding the hash code number for example you take this object uh h put double quotes saya 3 if you take when I
write k3 hash code first what you are finding group yes I found what one index
bucket I found once one index bucket I found then I will start comparing with all objects available in the map of only
one only in this bucket only in this bucket other objects I don't care so
number of comparisons are decreased So what is the use of hash code method? Hash code method is used for finding the
bucket and creating the bucket if not available. Double equal to operator and equals methods are meant for comparing
the currently adding object only with its hash code bucket objects. What is
the advantage of hashcode method? It is meant for creating same hash code objects as a one group. So that number
of comparisons will decrease performance will be more performance is increased.
Is it clear everyone? So finally I completed from my side hashmap internals and algorithm. How hashmap store the
object? Hashmap internally uses two data structures hash table and bucket. Hashmap uses hash table data structure.
Hashtable data structure uses bucket data structure. Second point, hash table is implemented by using node
array with the default capacity 16. Third point, for each new hash code
object, one bucket is created. If you try to store different objects with the same hash code, all the objects will be
stored in the same bucket. 16 locations nothing but 16 different hash code
objects. If you are passing 100 objects with the same hash code, what is the capacity? 16.
Capacity is 16, size is 100. How many buckets created? One bucket. Now what is
the purpose of the bucket? Bucket is meant for grouping the multiple objects to decrease the uh number of
comparisons. The bucket is implemented by using which data structure? Link list. Uh link list data structure. If
you implement I store 100 objects with the same hash code number. Then all 100 objects are linking linking linking
linking. Now the new object I'm storing with the same hash code. Now this new
object is now comparing with how many objects? 100 objects. Again number of
comparisons are increased. Now again the same earlier performance coming or then
in a Java 8 version this bucket data structure is improved by using tree set
algorithm. Don't say tree set binary tree algorithm. What algorithm? binary
tree algorithm uh tree set internal data structure is binary tree yesterday I
didn't explain the binary tree let me explain you now up to now all these points understood right uh now tell me
when I call ts dot add of double quotes a what happened now you know tree tree
uh tell me what the tree diagram tree has roots
and has what stem And have what? Branch. Left branch,
right branch. And then again it has left branch, right branch. Again it has left
branch, right branch. Again it has left branch, right branch. Again it has left branch, right branch. Again it has left
branch, right branch. Yes or no? This is the tree.
This is our real life tree. Java life trees.
reverse.
Okay. Now, uh this is called root
and this is called branch. Shield one shield.
Left branch. Right branch. Left branch is smaller objects. Right
branch is bigger objects. Okay. Now let me try.
Now let me draw tree diagram. When you write ts dot add of double quotes say
first reset also maintain objects by using node.
This node is not node. It is called tree node. That is just called node. This is called what? Tree node.
This called tree node. Node. Inside this node, how many how many
internal variables are there? Three. First item. Second.
Uh left. in a link list first last here left
right uh now a is stored here directly I'm writing okay not taking variables a
directly stored next when I call ts dot add of double quotes B when you write
sorry double quotes C when you write below what it is doing it is comparing
double quotes C minus double quotes A returns what negative number or positive
number positive number. Positive number means left or right. Right side branch created one more node
created. Attach it to what? Right. Right side attached. And what is stored? Cam.
Next. When I call tree set dot add of double quotes B when you write uh what
happened? Uh now again compare double quotes B
with whom? Rooter always starts with what? Root. Double quotes. A uh returns
negative or positive? Positive. Positive means which side I have to store? Right side. Right side already one node is
there. Now already one branch is there. How can I add one more branch there? Not possible. Then it will go down.
Comparing with C double quotes B minus double quotes C.
Now tell me what it returns negative. Negative means to which to which node C
node to C node left side new node is created and stored what B
understand now I want you to store TS dot add of double quotes D I'm storing D
and tell me where it is added how it is added first double quotes D minus
double quotes A uh returns what positive Positive means which side? Right side.
Right side already node is there. H come on. Double quotes D minus double quotes
C. Uh negative or positive? Positive. Positive
means which side? Uh to this C right side D is stored. Adex
carefully answer. Is this D object compared with B?
Not compared if it is array compared. If it is a link list compared
if it is a tree not compared. That means when you go to the tree first root you
have to touch. Then there now you are standing in the middle of the root you taking the decision go either right side
fruits or go to left side fruits. Can't go both side.
Are catching my point? So what is the advantage of the tree set or binary tree? Number of comparisons are
decreased or not. Next how to retrieve this is a storing. After storing
retrieving this is a root node. This is root node. This is what right node this
is left node and this is what right node. Uh now
how it is retrieved? Retrieving algorithm is left
root right. What is the algorithm? Left root right.
This is the algorithm. Uh retrieving algorithm. Bracket. First JB will go to
root node. Root left. Any node is there. Then take a
comma go to right. Right node is again right node become root node.
Now this root node where I have to go left node. Left node has any left?
Left node has any further left then take that be
then go up. Take the root. What is the algorithm? Left root right. Uh now go to
root node. Then root node right side D. D has any left? No. Then take D. D has
any right? No. Complete ABC. Understand? Uh so storing order and
then what? Retrieving order. Retrieving order is left root right. So start from
the least. Start from the root. From the root come to left. That left last left.
Collect the last left. Then left above. Then right, right again left. And then
what are you doing? First you are collecting all left branches and then collecting what? Right branches. Uh this
is the basic idea on tree node tree set internals memory diagram or uh binary
tree. Now the same algorithm is applied for h has table also. All people tell me
now this is our table data structure. as table data structure is implemented by
using node array. Uh each location is representing what? One bucket. Now here
in one index one bucket is created. In this bucket I have first node, second
node, third node, fourth node, fifth node with what with what memory
data structure is implemented link list data structure. uh then now I am trying to store the next node next object I'm
trying to store in the same bucket then it should be compared with first node second node third node fourth node fifth
node until match is found number of comparisons are increased in
Java 8 version onwards link list is changed as what binary tree
binary tree link list is a data structure small ll binary tree also data
structure with the binary tree we have an opportunity all nodes are compared
only either left or right compared right either left or right will be compared
not all so in a Java 8 version first
Java 8 version first link list will be created first link list bucket is link
list when the number of nodes are becoming greater than eight and then
ninth node you are trying to store then link list is changed to what binary.
So this greater than 8 this point is called threshold what we call threshold.
If the threshold is greater than a, if the bucket threshold is greater than a array, you are taken basket here first.
Then you are started going all you collected. Slowly slowly this bucket become very weight. What will you do?
Next bucket changing to tr. First you decided to take only four five
items you wanted to take. So bucket you taken but you getting tempted by seeing all the different items and discount
running in the supermarket. Then next what are you doing? Changing this bucket to trend. First initially uh whenever
link list sorry whenever h has table created the bucket is created by using linkal list. If number of items number
of items in the bucket basket is what? Eight ninth you are trying to store then you decided amo it is more increasing
more. Let me change from bucket to tr binary tree is the tr. So this is the
complete story about hashmap internals. Now with this memory diagram again you
try to apply this program. Ready? I'm deleting this entire program. Again I want to type
run. What do you see now? Huh? What do you see now?
No objects. Okay. But memory diagram background node array with 16 locations. No buckets
created. Then what? Zero. No objects created, no buckets, no objects. But 16
locations is created waiting for you. Now you are storing
HM dot put off. Hm do. Put off double quotes a comma 1
system dot out. double quotes /ash t plus hm
everyone should practice now tell me when I run this visualize what happened I have to store this double quotes say
in the uh 0 to 615 locations where to find it first we have to bring hash code
hash code 97 97 mod 1 equal mod 16 equal to 1 okay it is going on storing in one
location a= 1 you are seeing as a node object and it reference is stored inside
one index zero index and above 14 indexes are free next now I am trying to
store hmput of double quotes b two uh what happened now
where this double quotes b should store inside has table in any one of the indexes to find the index again take the
index number 98 node 16 two. So in the two index do you have any already node?
No. Then new node is created. Whenever new node is created we have to call it as what bucket. New bucket is created
and stored. Why b equal to two coming next to a
equal to 1? Because it index number is two. Now a index number is one. Oh,
because one is one talented people not one 2 one.
Okay. Now everyone tell me yesterday confusion now I want you clarified. B= 3
not 1 five store. Why yesterday this five has stored after
EAB? Actually hash code number 97 five hash code number is five. Five first 97
first five. But where it is storing after 97. Yesterday we got confused and
told tomorrow I'll explain five is stored after B.
Uh hash four number is used as it is. is divided by 16 and used
5 by 16 what is the number five if numerator is less than denominator
remainder is what numerator so five is the index number that's why fifth location it is going understand my point
next tell me if I write here 6.7 it is going to right because it index number
is more than five now if I write here null
nulla 3.1 3 not 1 or 41 or whatever four or five null null hash code number what
I told zero in zero index null will go on store
memory diagram visualization you are getting uh next now I'm trying to store here single quote P 6.1 where it is
storing after null
first I'm storing P uh observe where P is
before a and a before it is stored already means what is index number zero
singular quote p the number mod 16 result what is coming zero so in zero
location bucket is created then when I store null null is also going different
bucket same bucket same bucket both are going and sitting there so what they return single quote b double equal to
null False. Single quote P dot equals of null. False means null and P both are
storing in same bucket. This node linking to the next node. Okay. Now everyone tell me now if I
store here 97 uh 97 6.1 what happened?
These two are storing in same bucket. Next 98
uh B and 98 storing in same bucket. If I store again double quotes a uh now it is
comparing with A found duplicate existing value replace with newer A1
replace with seven not. Will you all people work out?
when I'm explaining you feel wow so easy
then you decide hey one point also not
Okay, this is the map hierarchy uploaded. This is the algorithm. First
when you call first object hash code is called directly add. When you call second object to add then first
comparing second object hash code with first object. If hash code of the both object same then comparison reference is
different then equals method. If that is also different add it. Okay. If hash
code is different directly added. reference is different data also uh data
also different then added in the same bucket so that entire algorithm I have written this is cool okay whatever
experience okay now you don't have that much patency to
listen all this explanation that's why hashmap internals hash code double equal
to operator equals method hashmap internally uses hash code method double equal to operator equals method hash
code user for grouping Same hash code objects as one unit so that multiple objects comparison is reduced and
execution will be fast. Double equal operator is used for comparing objects with reference. Equals method is used
for comparing objects with data. If is not overridden currently adding object class objects are compared by using
reference. Internal memory structure. Hashmap internally used hash table data structure for storing entries. Hash
table data structure uses another data structure called bucket. Bucket is also a collection link list. It is a group of
same hash code objects. For every new hash code object new bucket is created. If you pass same a code object with a
different reference and different state, it's stored in the existing bucket. If new object is stored with an existing
object hash code, we call it as hash collision. When hash collision is occurred, this new object must be stored
in the same existing bucket. Hence, this new object is the compared with existing object available in this bucket by using
double equal operator and equals method. If this new object is unique based on the both reference and state, it is
stored in the same bucket. This uh if this new object is same either reference wise or data wise existing value replace
with this pass new object algorithm when we add this is a data structure and this
is a algorithm when we add an entry put method internally first calls hash code method by using key object then it
searches for the bucket in this hash code with this key object hash code if bucket is not found creates a new bucket
bucket is found then call double equal operator and then equals method okay next now this is the memory diagram a
complete complete flow of execution. So first hashmap it's a diagram
conceptual diagram first hashmap created with a table key comma value internally buckets are there or not there not there
then when you call put method hash code bucket not found with 97 bucket is created key object stored double quotes
bucket not found key object bucket object is created put method call with a double quotes uh bucket found then
double equal to operator form duplicate value replace put method new string hash code is called bucket is found Then
double equal to operator false. Then equals method duplicate replace 97 new integer of 97. Okay. New SA of 5 six.
Okay. You can go through once. This is a conceptual diagram. And this is your original diagram. And next how it is
background working inside add method. How this index number available or not logic. If table of index equal to equal
to null, bucket is not found. Else bucket is found. And next. Now Java 8
version for bucket creation binary tree is used. If number of objects in the bucket greater than eight the existing
link list change it to binary for a decreasing number of comparisons. Okay.
And uh this is tree map in not. So already I have uploaded all the points. Now what to do? Go into room.
Hey practice and come tomorrow first 15
minutes I have to work on hashmap only. Today we worked with uh predefined
classes string and integer. In predefined classes string and integer already hash code method equals methods
are overrated. But in our user definfined class hash code method equals methods are not overrated.
Yes or no? Then what to do? We have to override and check. How to override and
check? Tomorrow we will learn the custom objects. Okay. So today we understood h map hashmap hashmap internals
tell me link hashmap tree map okay tomorrow I will write small program it's
just a program only already yesterday story only complete just rewriting the
so don't miss tomorrow class tomorrow is Friday now okay tomorrow
We will complete this hashmap internals. Uh following by link a hashmap, tree
remap, enam set, enum map and then the pending topic will be Q.
Okay. And then following by iterator, list iterator stream AP already. We have
to try some more examples with the collections. Okay. So by Saturday
um syllabus will not be completed. Okay. Sunday we going to have class. So Sunday
uh if any pending topic is there complete and then finally I'll give you complete revision on whatever we have
learned up to now. Okay. So the by Sunday 100% we will give a farewell to
our course. Thank you. That's all for today class. But today class is very important topic. Please practice and
come. So Sunday you can plan for leaving Hyderabad.
Sashidas who is not allowing heterogeneous objects.
Reset is deciding the objects based on what?
Reset is using data but bucket reset is using what? Hash code. Huh?
Same data. Understood.
You want heading array now
open Jax material 3 there you have array chapter with a heading array read it and
if you find anything not understand ask me I'll explain you personal okay Huh?
If you feel I didn't cover something, let me know. I didn't give heading, but I covered everything.

