ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
Yeah. Online students, can you hear me?
Okay. So in last class we have completed our first chapter introduction to Java.
As part of introduction to Java we started understanding what is our course. Our course is fullstack Java
development. Right? As part of fullstack Java development. What are the different
courses? What as part of fullstack Java development? What are you learning? developing a project. So there are two
levels of project architecture is there. Number one, MBC architecture, microservices architecture. MBC
architecture is advanced Java based architecture end user to UI. UI
developed by using HTML JavaScript CSS and then interacting with the serverside components and JSP advanca then core
Java then JDBC then database. Okay, this is the old architecture, old
technologies we are using to develop project. It is outdated in the market. Then in the currently market, we are
using microservices architecture. As part of microservices architecture, we are using frameworks to develop this
project first. What the frameworks we are using? Uh HTML place, HTML 5, CSS4,
Angular or React. Angular gone, React is there in the market. And then with this UI we are interacting with the back end
server side development spring and spring boot spring boot interacting with the core java core java interacting with
the hibernate hibernate place we are using spring data and then directly interacting with the database. So from
previous architecture to this architecture architecture is not changed only technology frameworks are changed
and very important your project can be interacted by other projects also that
is mobile applications can interact swiping machine can interact atm can interact and net projects python project
any other language project can interact for that purpose the communication channel for one project another project
is rest api okay so this is called distributed or interoperable.
Distributed or interoperable application we have to take. Huh? Then tell me now what are the different courses to
develop this project? To develop this project to become fullstack developer. What are the different skills you have
to acquire? The skills required to acquire typing skill, communication skills. The most most important typing
skills. First you should focus on typing skills and next you have to focus on communication skills and next problem
solving skills, logical programming skills and object oriented programming skills. And next UI programming,
database programming, then serverside programming, database interacting programming. Here also database is
there. Here also database is there. This is database programming and this is a database interacting programming. And
next one is what? Fast development. Huh? Typing skills. If you want acquire what you have to use typing.com the website
already shown you right typing.com communication skills I suggest one app hellolish
in mobile you have hello English one app is there or you can also follow some direct websites or you know YouTube
channels you can follow to improve your English so very very important you have to start learning English also from zero
zero means start from a okay generally we will pronounce in our lang In our
childhood we pronounce a as a but a is not a you should pronounce as what a you
know right a apple right so there is a terminology
but pronunciation will be different in our childhood our teachers also not much focusing on that what do you call
pronunciation but we have to start pronouncing in a proper way so that our
foreign clients can understand our English. I want to share my personal experience. My son initially studied in
international school there pronunciation he's studying a Cambridge University all
her a teachers are foreign teachers foreign country teachers they used to teach
after that you know from sixth class onwards okay because I should focus him on IT level engineering colleges so I
shifted him to the state syllabus state syllabus teachers English pronunciation will not be like a foreign
teachers no it's a regular pronunciation like our telu pronunciation will be He struggled for one year to understand
their pronunciation understand every day he will come back to home and ask and luckily that time uh
corona was there 2020 so he used to attend from the home and he don't understand side next I will also be
there in the home teaching I mean uh what from home he used to call me and ask no what he is telling I don't
understand okay then I'm converting the pronunciation to his understanding pronunciation okay then he started
slowly slowly slowly Now his pronunciation completely spoiled. Now he's talking in Telugu English.
Understood my point? Yeah. But he's having that flow. If I go take him to back once again for old days, then he
can start pronunciation properly. Your communication skills, listening skills, writing skills must also improve. In a
company first you have to talk to your teamly team manager who are you know
speaking with the clients. Is the pronunciation completely different than your pronunciation? Listening first you
should improve listening skills then speaking skills your pronunciation also should be like a foreign and not that
much posh English not required not that Hindi Telugu pronunciation slowly you
have to improve properly listening skills speaking skills also you should improve your writing skills writing
skills why you have to write mails to the client now uh when you're writing mails to the
client if you don't use proper vocabulary proper proper word proper grammar uh you will not get good impression in
front of the interview I mean uh in front of your client. So that's why English also you have to spend from
today onwards daily you have to spend 15 minutes on typing skills 15 minutes on
communication skills half an hour you have to spend for improving these two and English and uh communication skills
means don't feel now I have to study English you are not studying English you are learning how to speak in English how
to listen in English so your mind thought process slowly slowly how it should be suppose if you Take me as an
example. I'm teaching Java. When I'm teaching in Java, my brain is preparing sentence in Telugu, then translating to
English directly speaking in English. Uh your thought process should be in
English. But generally when you want to speak in English with your friends, first you prepare Telugu sentence
converting to Telugu. First you are preparing Telugu or Hindi sentence in your mind, your native language
sentence. Then you are translating it into what? English that is what you are doing mistake you
want to speak in English then English fluency only you should get your sentence should prepare in English only
other language should not come to your brain so that way you have to prepare uh that's called communication skills uh
daily from today weekly ones by Hindu paper
only every Sunday by Hindu paper every Sunday can you buy around 5 rupees will
be there the cost that Hindu paper from first paper first word to last paper
last word should complete reading for one week you are buying Hindu paper for what purpose for news purpose or English
purpose English speaking purpose vocabulary purpose
Hindu paper is the best for you to improve your English there is a huge vocabulary will be there 100% I'm
assuring one word also you don't understand except y the a will be there the will be there okay
except that you don't understand Hindu paper but if you start proning that Hindu paper by 1 month 45 days completed
unknowingly you will start speaking in English with high fivei high standard
vocabulary high standard grammar don't try to understand you just read
sir some words I cannot understand use Google translator type that word type that word and there is a button called
pronunciation button also will there. Click on that pronunciation. It will only pronounce and tell you how to pronounce. You just follow that
pronunciation and also repeat five times 10 times. So daily one one sentence or
one paragraph you start read that is Hindu paper. Second hello English app will be there in play store. Go download
there also 30 lessons are there free lessons and then conversation one tab will be there called conversation.
conversation tab you open and there one small lines it will start giving you read it next very very very important
wrong mindset don't worry about the grammar oh first I should learn grammar I should
use either was her has next what shall
what should I use in past first tense second tense third tense what should I use this tense is only created lot of
fear in your brain to stay away from the English don't worry about grammar let me ask a
question just born baby after one year completed started speaking now
in native mother tu hindi maria whatever uh then tell me when that when when that
kid is speaking does that kid know grammar no mommy saying some words repeating
after her okay and then when you are trying to tell something any grammar mistakes or any vocabulary mistake.
Mother is correct. Then who will correct me sir? Hello English will correct you. Next you take any LKG UK kid studying in
international schools. They can speak English better than you.
You people know eu was grammar present tense past tense past tense this sentence that tense. Oh my god 12
tenses. You know is that lkg uk does she or he know grammar? No. But are they
speaking any grammatical mistake, grammar mistakes? No. Perfectly they'll speak with the correct pronunciation.
How how is it possible? They don't know grammar. What is present tense? They don't know. What is the past
tense? They don't know. What is future tense? They don't know. But correct English they speaking. How they can speak? They feel that is their language.
Their mother tongue. Do you know in Telu Hindi grammar present tense, past tense, future tense?
No. How can you speak? they you feel that is your language when you start speaking automatically you will come to
know what is right what is wrong okay now so follow hollow English conversation tab daily and read Hindu
paper automatically your English will be improved so 15 minutes for typing 15
minutes for communication you have to spend then next problem solving skills logical programming object oriented
programming don't worry I will take care of it these three I will take care UI programming HTML database programming
Oracle course. Hope you already joined. HTML var two courses join now only one.
Which one? Veracle. Okay. So two courses running now, right? Core Java and Oracle or Core
Java and HTML or three courses. How many people join all three?
Super two only any one of the two core Java plus other. Okay. How many people are learning only core Java?
Why remaining people remain not jo
why okay good huh presence once again how
many people taken only kjava I don't question you I don't trouble you okay just I wanted to know 1 2 3 full hand
not half end okay now tell me you people why you only join kjava
because a time problem or feeling I cannot understand okay tell me now only core Java join
feeling I want only now core Java other courses I cannot understand
okay Java only join because of time problem hey remind me what
two options you didn't raise hand okay
okay you completed B When you want a job, when you want a
job, after how many years you want a job?
They depend on you only. When you are expecting job, 6 months,
you want job in 6 months. After core Java, you want to join other course.
Then you take two years minimum to complete courses.
You are senior important. I am important. Then why do you join my class?
If you want to follow your senior suggestion to your senior also I am the senior. Now
why you want HTML? Senior
oh first you want HTML then you want come to Java but seniors recommended Java first that's why you join Java and
you don't have your own ideas
Okay, listen listen listen everyone again I'm reminding you all don't follow
your senior suggestions now onwards open statement I'm telling don't follow
your senior suggestions now onwards your seniors suggested wonderful one suggestion that is nar
done follow
from here onwards you must follow me only I am the senior to your senior also
Okay. If you follow your seniors, your seniors followed the wrong approach only. You are also following. Finally,
your senior failed, he also failed. See your seniors troubling, he also getting troubles.
Don't follow your seniors now onward. Still courses completed. Only follow what I'm saying. Your senior will don't
do the try. It's very difficult b
he don't know how to swim. I am telling that I will teach how to swim follow me and no my senior told don't jump into
water I will that time is different now it is time different that time hibernate was there if a senior say join hibernate
will you join hibernate hibernate over there are so many courses are gone when you are seniors learning
now there are those courses not there minimum two courses you have to join now
already two weeks completed now already got ID on core java programming uh it's
the time now You have to have second course in your pocket. Oracle first priority is Oracle.
Core Java Oracle. These two now compulsory. You are not here to stay for
2 years. You are here maximum to stay 8 months. 8 months maximum you have to spend the
time for full stack job. More than that you are spending you are a wrong planned and wrong guided.
Okay. So 8 months maximum minimum 6 months maximum 8 months. So now course
Java two weeks completed. You have full-fledged idea in your mind what to learn, what to learn, how to learn. Uh
now second course you have to choose is Oracle. Sir why Oracle sir? Why not HTML?
For starting advanced Java core Java oracle important HTML is optional. Half
of the course completed advance advance half of the course completed then HTML require even you don't have HTML
knowledge also advanc faculty will take care. But Oracle course knowledge if you don't have you cannot join advance.
So core Java, Oracle first priority. In core Java, whatever you are doing, same
thing you are doing in Oracle. What operators you are learning in core Java? Same operators in Oracle. Okay. Now what
style of programming you are writing in Java? Core Java, same style of programming you are doing in Oracle. So that's why core Java Oracle both are
same. So this week if any new oracle batch is starting already started batch
don't join newly first class onwards first class onwards ifra batch is starting morning session last week
evening session started maybe this week morning session at 11:00 or 7:00 will start join that batch if you have
already joined it's good don't worry continue that okay uh if batch is not
started s I want to join HTML then three courses you have to manage clear my
uh core Java in core java learning problem solving logical programming object oriented all these three three
four five skills I will take care I will improve uh UI programming database programming you have to join separate
course core Java and Oracle first combination you have to join if still
your mind is accepting feeling so much time is there wasting the time then choose join HTML sir already I joined
three courses wonderful continue no problem if you have only continuing courses Java and you have still time is
there you are not collegegoing student you have time remaining 22 hours what will you do
2 hours only you join the course remaining 22 hours lay down on the bed rolling that side decide
so just realize already you have wasted four years of time bte again you are coming to Americ wasting the time only
change your mind use your free time properly don't follow senior suggestion follow my suggestion if I say something
you how to do blindly and if you don't understand something contact me I will suggest you how to learn what to learn
clear any time you can write message to me on WhatsApp don't call I don't lift it either message or call both should be
on WhatsApp only clear my point right huh so core java in core java 3 four
five skills you are learning and then oracle so totally how many courses you have joined now
come on four courses number Number one, core Java. Number two,
typing number three communication. Number four,
Oracle. Totally four courses. Sir, where did you join typing skills?
Communication skills first fellow not institute. Are you catching my point? Uh 15 minutes
on your laptop with the typing.com website. 15 minutes on
communication skills. Uh 5 minutes Hello World. Hello world app five minutes Hindu paper understood uh five minutes
you try to do your revision so 15 minutes typing skills communication skills half an hour core Java half an
hour to practice daily half an hour sufficient as of now beginning days half an hour is sufficient half an hour 1
hour okay 1 hour practice and then Oracle course half an hour so totally
after your three courses completed practice how much time you have to spend 2 hours totally 2 hours you have to
spend and finally You are spending almost 6 to 7 hours you are working on these four courses still you are feeling
time is wasting then join HTML otherwise wait sir already I joined no problem
then four courses you are dealing extra half an hour you are spending there here and there so these courses up to seven
courses you have to plan properly within 3 months to four months you have to complete these four courses
by next four months completed you should be very strong in typing also very strong in communication
listening and speaking. Okay. After four months completed uh you started watching
every Friday one English movie will be released like our Telugu Hindi movies
English foreign movies also will be releasing now start watch that movie go to cinema theater complete one and a
half hour movie you should understand each and every dialogue you should understand otherwise your listening skills are not yet improved.
Ah sorry, theater or whatever. Okay, is that clear guys? So first focus on
these seven skills complete in four months maximum in four months and then you start understanding advance and
spring next four months. So again I'm remaining after 2 weeks
still if you don't listen me if you're following your own style of learning then you will fail in your career. You
are wasting your money. You are wasting your time. Already uploaded already
uploaded already. I'm showing from your Google classroom only or Google classroom. Okay. Don't take any photos.
Don't waste space in your mobile. And then escape sequence characters program. I have not uploaded. I forgot I have
already uploaded. So with this our first chapter introduction to Java. Introduction to Java means introduction
to your learning process. Introduction to your software industry career.
Introduction to project architecture. Introduction to fullstack Java. Introduction to the skills required.
Introduction to Java. Introduction to core Java. Introduction to the programming elements. Introduction to
the program development. Preparing your complete platform. Now basement is ready.
Okay. Basement is ready. Now first floor tiling is started. Ready? Now we are constructing one building. Okay. First
floor uh basement is completed. Okay, it's the time now we have to start Friday flooring
raikumar. Okay, I will share videos also here today. I will collect the videos from
admin. I'll share here. You can watch it. Okay, now I cannot teach again. I cannot waste the time again.
Now let's start second chapter open notes.
Chapter 2, comments,
identifiers and keywords,
comments, identifiers, and keywords.
comments, identifiers and keywords.
Actually, chapter heading is comments and Java tokens. Okay, actually heading is
comments and Java tokens. Don't change it. Chapter heading is chapter heading
is what? Comments, identifiers, keywords but original heading is what? comments
and Java tokens. So identifiers, keywords are called what? Tokens. Okay,
but I don't want you use that word. Uh this is the chapter the most most important chapter. As part of this
chapter, you're learning what is comment types of comments. What is identifier? Types of identifiers. What is keyword?
Different operations we can perform by using keywords and keywords listed. Then Java new version changes from 1.0 to 21.
There are so many differences, so many changes, so many enhancements are added. What the enhancements we are added, we
are trying to understand. Next, what is a result word? We have a term called what? Keyword also we have a word called
result word. What are the difference between keyword and result word? We are learning. Next, what is a Java Java
token? Types of Java tokens. What is the separator? Number of separators. What is
the wear, yield, record, sealed, permit? There are some special words are came.
Are those words are keywords are not keywords are that also you have to learn. So finally we are start
understanding the most important chapter. Next one is what? Logical programming. As part of our logical
programming we are what are the things we have to learn. The first chapter as part of logical programming is this is
the chapter. Okay. Write on down under that you are learning first one.
What are the chapter writing? comments, identifiers, keywords.
Uh here first one you are learning comments and
types of comments. Second we are learning
identifiers and types of
third one keywords.
List of keywords rules.
Yeah. Online students from this chapter onwards you won't get recordings.
If you have uh if you done payment for recordings you will get recordings. Okay. So don't trouble me or don't
trouble admin for recordings. If you miss class you won't get
recording. Now onwards you'll get only material. You have to follow material daily.
First chapter is demo classes. So recordings are provided. Uh comments and types of comments rules. Identifiers and
types of identifiers rules. Keywords their operations. List of keywords rules. The next
changes. Okay. added in different
versions from Java 1.0 to Java 21.
Fifth result word
types of reser words
and their purpose.
Difference between
keyboard and
preser words.
Separator.
List of separators. Difference between separator and operator.
Separator and operator.
can sit anywhere but there's no restrictions.
Now let's start understanding comments first.
Uh first we need to understand any topic we start first we learn with what
any chapter you have to learn there is a style of learning our style of learning you want to become master we learn
concept entry questions project development so we will learn with the topic what
every chapter we start with what don't write Listen. Why? Then how? Then where?
Then which?
Okay. And whom? Whom is will not come now. Coming days it will come.
Okay. W questions and these are the six wh questions are there. What? Why? How?
Where? Whom? Which? Anything. When when uh whom bloom
also will come in future okay whom also will come in future not now uh these are
the seven questions we are going to learn every chapter so that you'll become master in that particular story.
Uh now in place of whom we are learning sample program
interview questions interview questions and project. So this
is the last topic seventh topic. So now first we are understanding what is a keyword sorry what is a comment and next
why comment. Next sample programmable comment. Then
where can we use comment? Then next which comment is nothing but types of
comments. Comment and types of comment which why comment and then sometimes
this which will come down or coming up. So now here it is moving here as a third
point which comment is nothing but types of comments
types of comments. And next uh sample program sometimes will come down
sometimes will come up. Okay this is four and this is five. Sample
program with
with the comments. And next sixth one where can we use a comment? Seventh one
when should we use comment? Already when is maximum will come in a Y? In Y only when comment and here only
when comment. Y comment and when comment both 99% the answer for Y and when will
be same. Okay. And now I'm removing this when comment. And next uh
5 6 7 uh sample program already covered there interview questions
interview bits in sample program only project will be covered. Okay. Uh so this is the seven points we have to
learn as part of this interview bits nothing but compile time errors.
Every chapter has compile time errors. You should maintain the list compile time errors and interview bits. Right?
These are the seven topics we have today.
Right. Right. Right. First
completed. Uh now let me open notepad.
Tell me this is our new chapter. Where will you store where will you save all
these programs in old folder? New folder. Let's create new folder. Go to your D drive and uh
FSJD. Shall I copy this folder? Okay. Core Java Java basic
folder. I'm taking it into this folder now. Paste.
Joti Kumari. What is that screenshot?
PDF is not opening.
And why did you send the screenshot? Error showing up.
That is not error. That is asking saving. Save it now.
Save and open. That is not opening. That is saving.
And why are you saving? I don't understand. Go to Google classroom.
Go go go go go to Google classroom
click on it open. Why you are downloading? I don't
understand why you are always doing something extra and confusing.
Okay, listen guys. Now I'm creating a second folder here. Uh what is that? Comments identifiers
keywords. I'm taking the shortcut C. Comments identifiers keywords.
Uh now here I'm going to save my programs now onwards. Okay. I'm taking
something something. Everyone listen please. I'm typing here something something. Save it with the name any
name you wish. Okay. D drive uh FSJD01
comments identifier keywords. Here I am saving with any name. I'm taking this program name as comments on Java. Okay.
Java file name is comments on Java. Save it. Go to command prompt. Uh tell me how to open command prompt. I told open the
folder where you save your Java programs. Yes. Uh now cmd
uh here type java c comments dot java sir I didn't
type anything abraadabra automatically coming how
java I must type after typing what I'm saying abraadabra okay magic
you have to press tab tab space when I press tab space tab key on the keyboard
then it will bring the first name available in the folder. It will show automatically. No sir I have so many
files are there. I want particular file then first character you have to type that is called filtering C. Type the
first file start with C will be there. Another file I want again tab tab tab so that other files will come. Uh look at
there when I compile compiler throwing error comment on java error class
interface enum expected class interface enum or record expected what the new
compile time error name you are seeing class interface enum or record expected
okay already last chapter print method some rules you have written okay print l
and print of method rules you errors you have written now continue that this is the next rule are you writing compile
list maintaining or forgot how many errors you know that much strong you are in Java written test
exam you can easily pass so the next compile time error you are learning is class interface enum or record expected
sir what is this class I don't understand what is this interface I don't understand enum record I don't
understand so that is a wrong third already know class uh now this is my Java file Java file I started with what
this is the statement as LKF something written compiler is saying that Babu in
this Java file you have written something here I didn't understand I can understand only what class every Java
file should starts with class if not class what interface if not interface if
not enum record so every Java file can start with only four words what the four
words class R interface are enam or record other than these before anything
you write I cannot understand and I will throw errors is it clear now right uh now tell me I
want to tell to compiler software compiler I have written this line by my
sake okay uh I am writing this line by my sake you don't worry you just ignore
it uh now tell me how can I tell to compiler this line I'm writing for my sake you please ignore don't consider I
have to use some special syntax I want to talk to compiler with some special syntax that is forward two slashes. What
do you write? Forward two slashes. Okay. Flash. Uh now when you write a forward
two slashes, this is called comment. What do we call comment? Comment means don't comment.
Comment means what? I'm telling something. Don't tell about anything. Don't comment. That is a wrong comment.
Good comment. Remember uh so when you say comment means what? Don't read it.
Just it is hiding. So if you want to tell to compiler don't read one line in
the program don't compile one line in the program. So what should I do? Just you have to ignore. For that I show you
one special syntax compile. Then what happened? Program compiled or not? Yesterday I told you check empty Java
file can be compiled or not. Should I have class keyword or not? Did you try or not? Empty Java file is also
compiled. But the dot class file created or not created? Not created. class file if you want to create
class name is required. Now what the dotcl class file name class name dotcl class when there is no class file cannot
be created. Uh so tell me now can I create a java file with just one dummy
lines? No. If you want write some dummy statements other than java anything you wanted to write that you should write
inside a comment. So tell me what this special syntax is called comment. Next I'm writing I'm writing I'm writing
multiple lines like this I'm writing multiple lines like this I have written multiple lines then when I write
multiple lines what should I do now uh will compiler compiler not compile not compile compiler software started
throwing error one by one line by line this line wrong this line wrong this
line wrong then what should I do I have to comment comment comment comment all four lines I have to comment by using
comment uh then Tell me what happened compile successfully. But if I have 100 lines I have written 100 single single
comment using it's a repeatation or not and in future if you want remove again 100 times I should type 100 times I
should remove that's why some micro system has given one special comment to us start with star and end with what
star slash uh this is called what also comment but
what is the difference between this comment and this comment uh this is called single single line comment. This
is called multi-line comment. This will comment only one line. That means it
will ignore only one line. Uh it will ignore how many lines? Uh don't say multiple lines. Maybe one
line, maybe multiple lines. Based on double quotes, double quotes. Double quotes start till end of double
quotes for it ignoring all middle characters or not. Similarly, wherever slash star is started from there onwards
all the lines are keep on ignoring how long until/ar is found. Now tell me this
is / star I'm writing here. How many lines are commented? Only one line remaining lines will start getting
compile time error. Yes. So if you wanted to comment multiple lines I have
to use a / star star slash but using multi-line comment can I comment only one line also? Yes. Can I comment
multiple lines also? Yes. By using single line comment, how many lines I can comment? Only one line. By using
multi-line comment, how many lines I can comment? Multiple lines. Everyone understand? Single line and also
multiple line. Like multi-line, there is also another syntax is there.
There is also another syntax is there. Another syntax is there. This is also multi-line comment. But can you please
notice the difference between multi-line comment and this new comment? Multi-line comment starts with star one star. Uh
this comment will start with what? Slash double star. Double star. And then what is the difference between this one? This
one. This is just a comment. This is a document comment. What comment? Document
comment. So tell me what is this single line comment. Uh what is this?
Multi-line comment. Multi-line comment. Uh what this is called document common. That's all. The
chapter completed. What completed? Yeah, simple. Now tell me what is a comment?
Ah, comment is a comment, right? What is a comment? Double/ star.
What is that special syntax? Now tell me what is a comment? A comment is a special syntax. I cannot say yeah
comment is a comment and it's not good. Okay, a comment is a special syntax. Why comment? Comment is used for
ignoring some lines of compilation in the program. Using comment, I can tell
to compiler some part of the lines no need to compile. Ignore it. Don't generate any bite code. Next. How many
types of comments? We are three types of comment. Uh single end comment slash
single end comment slash uh multi-line comment slash
document comment slashstar star slash uh
sample program. Okay. How how means what sample program? Uh this is a uh syntax.
How are syntax? How are syntax? Uh how single line
comment/ stamp then text. Uh next multi-line comment/ star then text one
line or multiple line. Document comment/ star star text one line or multiple
lines. Uh sample program with comments. Everyone understand? Really right. Uh,
no. Write down, write down, write down, write. Develop a program.
Develop a program.
Develop a program to show the usage of
all three all three types of comments
in adding two numbers. In adding two numbers,
develop a program to show the usage of or use of or usage of
usage of all three comments in adding two numbers.
in adding two numbers.
Everyone tell me now I'm trying to type the code down. This is the Java file. What is the name
of the Java file? We are saving this program with addition. Java edition on Java. Now go
to command prompt. Compile this program. Is this program compiler not compile?
Come on guys, fast. Compiler not compile. Compiler not
compile. Why this text cannot understandable to
compiler? Then it will throw compile time error class interface enum or
record expected. Now this sentence I have written for compiler JVM sake for
my sake for my sake and for my other developer sake. Then tell me should I
allow compile to read? Ignore it. Ignore it. Then what should I use? Comment. Which comment?
Either single line comment or multi-line comment. But which one is recommended here?
Uh when use which comment? When we use which comment? Uh tell me we should use
a two lines. So multi-line comment I'm using / star star slash
understood. Uh save below. Save this program
as edition. Java huh try please comment now
you also start use clearly comments and everything this program is meant for
showing the usage of comments only
all three lens place in one multi-lane comment And
uh now let's start writing class class addition. Don't write 1 minute after
completing this question. Wait don't write class edition open bracket closed bracket.
Uh tell me now this class edition you are writing in company for your sake or
for other developer sake uh in company complete project
developing by one developer or multiple developers. You are writing one class will be used
by other developers or not. How other developer knows why you are writing this class? What is the purpose of this
class? Understand my point? Suppose you go to Amazon.
Amazon. Amazon. Where are you? Amazon. Go to Amazon. Say this is not
browser. Where are you? Uh browser. This is what Amazon.in. In
Amazon I wanted to buy uh this shoes and tell me suppose footwear I want to buy
these shoes. I want to buy. When will you buy the shoes? After getting some information about the shoes now blindly
by seeing the name S h o e s buying no you are seeing the color and style of
the shoes that means the information you are getting information about that shoes
click on this and then now you come to here there are different types of shoes are there okay uh something okay I
wanted to buy the shoe then click on this image then here again many shoes
are coming okay I want to Buy the shoes. Click on this uh observe. Now this shoes
which company shoes I'm not asking company name read
concept I take an example connecting to the current topic right? Uh that mind you
should have you came to Amazon to buy the shoes sir. OM talented people. This
is our class. What the name of the class? Class of shoe open bracket closed
bracket. Now this shoe information this shoe is a company of which company Lance
uh what is the star rating of this shoe? 3.7 okay how many ratings are there?
4,53. And what is the percentage of discount you are getting? 60. Uh what
are the other colors are available? What is the description of this shoe? uh that mean this entire information what you
are seeing is it a description of this issue or not.
How can we provide a description of an class? How can we provide description of
a program or a class? By using uh by using doc comment by the doc. doc means
what? Documentation. I want to provide some documentation about my class. Why I
am writing this class? What the purpose of this class? Who written this class? When written this class, for which
client I have written this class, complete details about your class. If you want to provide some documentation
if you wanted to write then we will use what? Document comment. What is this document comment? How many types of
comments we have? Three types, comma. What is the purpose of those comment? Uh
slash starst star slash is called java do comment. What comment?
Java doc comment. What the use of it? It is used for providing information about
the class and its members and its functionality. Clear my point? Huh? Then
now tell me I'm writing the class called what? Addition. What the purpose I'm writing? This class is used for adding
given two uh maybe numbers, maybe strings. I don't
know. uh in this class he is used for performing adding two given values what
are those values I don't know uh who developed this uh at the rate other okay
whenever you are writing some information we write what at the rate at the rate other who is the other hk
parrna okay
okay now uh this code available since since it is available from 1.0 Z okay
this project version first version is 1.0 Z available since if you want to provide information about this class we
will use what comment document comment. So tell me what is the difference between docu comment and multi-line
comment. Multi-line comment meant for commenting multiple programming statements are these are programming
statements or description description. Okay. If you want to provide some description about the class multiple
lines then we will use what doc comment sir if I use multi-line comment here what happened? Something happened I will
tell you. Okay now something happened some problem is there. So for providing description to the class I should use
doc comment. Is it clear to everyone? Uh write down this as it is.
Have we completed this question? Okay. Down.
Yes. I'll tell you right
uh completed a comment only don't write class only up to here and tell me inside this
class inside this class I want to create one method you don't know but I'm
writing okay how to write main method tell me
you don't write you don't write okay public static wide main of
string array ars. Uh what the purpose of main method? Main method is meant for writing logic or
executing logic. Then where we write logic like main method we can also create our own
methods. Okay. Now how to create our own method in a method creation public
mandatory syntax wise when remove public static did you get any error? No. Why?
Mandatory main mandatory string array asks
uh not mandatory right so if you want to create a method if you want to create a
method mandatory award return type method name parameters method name should be main our own name I can choose
our own name I'm taking name as add wide add of uh inside I'm writing system dot
outprint ln I want to Take my own numbers. Int= 10. Uh, next int b in b
equals to 20. Uh, next int c int c equals to
a + b. And now I'm writing c. Everyone understand?
Uh, I have written this program. Everyone should participate and listen and answer. I have written this code.
Saved this program. compiled this program and given this class file to other developer calculator developer
then other developer will call our method and execute 100 times he called
this method 100 times it is adding what numbers come on faster
100 times it is adding what numbers 10 20 only and 100 times it is adding same
two numbers only now tell me if you take your real calculator if you take your
real calculator is This real calculator is adding always 1020 only a given
numbers. Uh tell me is it never have the numbers with it. Always asking the user to pass
the given numbers then it will add isn't it? Tell me your application is dynamic
application static application static application because it is always
working with same values. If a program is always working with the same values then that program is called what? Static
nature program. The real calculator is a static nature or dynamic nature. Dynamic
nature. Some people are not replying. Nana reply now. Please know static or dynamic. What the meaning of dynamic?
Other people are answering. You are not answering. I'm using so many new vocabulary. If you don't reply, if you
don't talk, you cannot catch that words. Clear my point. Uh speak. Okay. Speak. Any speaking problem? No. No. Now come
on reply. Okay. If you have any speaking problem then I will I I can excuse you. If you don't have speaking problem still
if you are not speaking you'll face so many difficulties in the class. First two weeks are different. Next coming two
weeks are different. Next coming two weeks you are in programming. Lot of points you are learning. So first
today itself you are ignoring talking. Next classes you cannot understand. Please try to open your mouth. Don't
only use your use your mouth. Then brain will be active. Come again. Your addition
program is static because
it using only same values. The real addition program is
dynamic because it is allowing us to change value working for any given
number and tell me this kind of program accepted in the companies. No. Uh now you have two options. Unfortunately,
unknowingly, you have written this code and given to client, client and other
programmer whoever. Then other programmer has seen this code and ask no no I want I want
uh what do you call accept the values this this program should accept the
values I'm giving. I don't want the same fixed values. Then what will you do? I
have two options. Option number one, remove this logic and write again.
Option number two, comment this logic and write new logic.
Which option you choose? Remove a comment. If I remove now in future, he may ask
write this logic again. Then in that case I have to retype the entire project again. That's why once you write the
logic based on the requirement if they ask for us to change which is the right
option remove a comment comment how many lines are here multiple lines is it a description or is
it a logic logic if it is a description I have to use what which comment
document comment but is it a description or is a Java code Java code Java code
multiple lines if you want to comment I must use multi-line comment. Understand the
difference between doc comment and multi-line comment. If you want to comment description of a program then
use document comment. If you want comment the programming statement then use what multi-line comment. So tell me
now I want to write add method one more time. Uh v add up. This time you want to
write fixed value programmer take value from the programmer. If you want to take value from the
programmer this intb should write in the parenthesis. Are you catching my point? If you want
to fix the values create that variables inside the method. If you don't want to fix the values I want to take value from
other programmer. I have to write the same variables inside parenthesis. Understand the difference between body
and parenthesis. If write variables in open bracket, closed bracket, body, other programmer can pass the values.
No, always this method execute with fixed values. If I want to take values from other programmer, what should I do?
I should take the variables in the parenthesis. Repeat once again. If I write variables in the body, these are
called just variables. What we call variables. If you write the same variables in
parentheses, we should not call them as a variables. We must call them as parameters. What we should call
parameters. Parameters. So much huh? Tell me if you take values here
directly. We call them as just values. Now I want to pass values to the
parameter. How you should take main method here? Okay. Main method. Public static
void main of string array arcs. String array arcs. Listen. Listen. Listen.
Listen. Uh this is calculator. Is this calculator automatically adding the
given number? No. Just try open calculator. Is it automatically
performing addition, subtraction, multiplication? No. What you have to do? Click on the button. Plus, minus into
you should click on the button. Clicking on the button is nothing but calling.
What? Calling. Just by creating the method, method is not executed. After
creating method, you must call. How to call? You should choose method name
parentheses. Copy. And in the main method, you should place here semicolon.
Here what is written? Method name parameters. Take it. Copy and place
what? Semicolon. Now what we call it as method calling. Now tell me can I
directly write a method calling like this? No. Compiler thrower is a description. Right? So this description
is a single line. So I can use what? Single line. Understand? Right. Save it.
Uh now in place of int a what I should write? Value 10. In place of int b what
I should write? Value 20. So tell me this 10 and 20 are called values. No,
they are now called as arguments. What they called? Arguments. Huh? Tell me
now. This 10 is going on storing inside A. This 20 going on storing in B. And
tell me here A and B are called arguments of parameters. Parameters. And
tell me here A and B are called what? Uh variables. Variables. Here 10 and 20 are
called what? Uh excellent. 10 and 20 are called what? Values. Understood? If you
assign something directly to the variable in this line, we call what? Value. If the same value you are passing
from parentheses, what we call argument. Uh all these are what description only.
But how many lines of description there? Single line. How can I can use multi-line comment or single line
comment? Single end comment. Understanding this example is what along
with the new words we are facing what we are using what comments comments usage in the program I want to provide small
description single line comment I want to print multiple lines of description multi-line comment either document
comment your wish okay uh now the question tell me what logic you write inside we are writing system dot out dot
print ln system outprint ln semicolon what you write Now int c
into c equals to a + b what you write into c equal to a + b c I have written
okay only people understand now I'm removing these part I don't want to focus much on here I'm deleting all
these things now please try to answer this one also removed only focus on the main points tell me again I want to
provide description to a class then what should I use document comment I want to
comment multiple lines of programming statements multiple lines of programming statement multi-line comment uh listen
if I write system outprint and see if you want to execute this line first of all I have to call this method uh this
line is called calling this line is called creation then 10 is stored here and 20 is stored here and now 10 + 20
result 30 C value is what 30 s C is display what value 30
when 30 is printed on the console can user programmer understand what is that
30? No. Client can understand what is that 30? No. 30 is age, 30 is value. 30
is what? Don't understand. So client has asked me I want some description along
with the 30. Then what should I do? I should remove this line. Come on. Come on. Why you are laughing?
Why you are laughing? Am I joking anything? And then why you are laughing?
Not you answer fast. Why are you laughing? Stand
up.
Any friend there? This corner
not here. Why you are seeing this side and keep on laughing? Last 10 minutes I'm seeing like a mad fellow. You are
looking that smiling. Looking that smiling. Why now also smiling?
Why? Nothing.
Nothing. Why you smiling by
situation?
comment. What is a comment? Hey, don't talk
please. Why you talking when I'm talking other student? Huh?
The line describes about the class is called commenter. I didn't say that statement.
How many types of comments are there?
How many types of laughings are there?
How many types of comments? Two.
Trying lu happy law.
which now come on guys this line
I don't want should I remove this line or I should which comment
why single line is this a description or program
statement program statement I have to comment either by using single line or by using
multi-line. So what should I use? Single end comment. Then down I am writing system dot
print len of uh the addition of
the addition of can I use print method? The addition of percentage d and
percentage d is percentage d.
Uh what I should write here comma a comma b comma c all right save it tell
me did you get clarity on single end multi-line comment and document comment
uh save this program with the name addition jar now let me compile if I
compile this program are there any compile time errors to the program where is this command prompt
clear screen java c addition java any compile error. No, I want to execute. If
I execute, is that addition add method executed automatically? No output. No
output. Why? Because I didn't call it uh if you want to execute addition operation on the calculator, you are
giving value 80. Uh click on what? Plus 30. Then click on what? Equal to
uh until you don't click on equal to is that operation performed or not performed? Not performed. So in Java
what is that? Click on the button. Click on button is nothing but calling method. Which method you want to call? Add with
what values you want to call? 10, 20. Uh 10 will go and store in
first parameter. A uh this 10 is what? Argument. First argument stored in first
parameter. Second argument is stored in second parameter. Then the logic A is
reading the first argument 10 second argument 20 add both value 30 store it
inside C and then now which statement executed the commented SOP and C or the
uncommented the statement outside the comment outside comment is the compiler JVM execute this commented C no then
next line the addition of percentage D percentage D percentage D A value 10 B
value 20 C value 30 let us go and Ready?
Ready. Can you talk to a person who not born yet or dead?
Can you talk to a person who is not having life? One statue there. Can you
go and talk? Hi, how are you? Possible not possible. Possible. Not possible.
Not possible. In Java also not possible in Java also not possible. Okay. Do one
thing. Go to Google. Search for me. My photo will come. Talk to my photo. Hi Har
fellow. What are you doing? Huh? Today in the class you scolded me. You pointed
me. Anyways, you cannot scold me directly. You can scold my photo. No. Yes sir. No. Uh that way you can take
revenge on me. Huh? Nowadays students are
planning outside you right here. You come outside.
How dare you to force me to study in the class? Huh? You come outside. Huh? Right. Then now try to answer. Can you
talk to my photo? FO there but life not there. Same way. Listen carefully.
Method is there but it doesn't have life.
So in C language method has life sir. It is Java. Why you are comparing with the C and
Python? Java. Java is different. In Java just by creating a method it doesn't
have life. Java point of view life means memory. How can we provide memory?
Declare it as a static. So tell me last class all people ask in main why static
sir static is meant for providing memory. Uh if you want to call a method
and execute its logic it must have memory. What the memory? How can you
provide memory? by using static understood right. So inside main method
also we have what static why static there in the main method to provide a memory to the main method. Who will call
main method? JVM. If a main method doesn't have memory, can it call or cannot call? Cannot call. Suppose I am
removing this static here. Then tell me is main method has memory. No. Go to command prompt compile it. Any compile
time error? No. Uh execute it. JVM will scold you. Right? Tumor fellow that main
method doesn't have memory how can I call main method is not static in the class edition please define it like this
so that it has a memory I can call now now I'm making it as a static so now
what happened this main method has a memory now either you can call or JVM also can call similarly once you define
the your own method if you want to execute you have to call for calling purpose what we required memory to
provide memory I have to declare this method as a strat. Save it. Go to command promp. No. Is there any compile
time error now? No. Because you provided memory you are able to call. Is there any JVM execution? Sorry, JVM exception.
No. Executed successfully. We got output. The addition of 10 and 20 is 30.
S may write on this program now and then I'll
explain you some more points there to explain so that we can complete our comment ch.
Now tell me have you written this comment already? All right. Class edition.
First m completed.
Did you place in comment? Okay.
Hello students, did you understand?
Okay. Okay. Right. Right. Right.
Someone asked the question what is the difference between document comment and multi-line comment.
The person got clarity to provide description we use document comment. For commenting programming lines we will use
multi-line comment.
Ganeshi when I'm explaining don't write notes when I ask you to write then write notes okay
when I'm explaining if you write notes then method explanation completed
bhavana you are in muchi chapter
comments. Where did he explain method?
Sumant. What should I explain? Which line you want me to explain?
Did he join just now?
uh what is this line meaning?
Uh calling add method.
Calling add a method. How are you calling add method? By passing
two arguments 10 and 20. Two arguments 10 and 20. Tell
me uh how will you comment this one? This is within the logic outside logic.
Hey you are writing this comment within the logic outside logic.
within the logic. When you are writing description within the logic, that
description also you should provide by using single line or multi-line.
Understand? Uh so tell me here we will use single line or multilina. Multi-line.
uh again repeating when to use uh uh what do you call when I should use
a document comment for providing description only when you are writing description outside of the method
outside of the methods if you're writing description then use Java comment if you are using description inside the method
logic inside the method body Java doc you should not use either single link
comment or multi-line comment you should use understood tell me now what is This
one this is a method calling a method definition method definition. So this is
what method definition. Uh now tell me you are providing description outside of the method inside
method inside. This is a method definition. So tell me so what you write now method definition. Method definition
you are writing inside description. So I use what single line comment. I add the single line comment here. Method
definition Laxmi Prasad both are same only difference is place you are writing
right on method definition means creating new method
creating a new method
Creating a new method
dash if you don't write main method how can I execute this method.
inside main method logic. This is what our own method. Our own
method. How can I write inside another method? This is one method
and this is another method. Two different methods. We cannot write one method.
uh for executing this method I should write inside this method. This is
calling. Uh now tell me what is the flow of execution of this program?
What you write? Java uh addition
correct execution purpose. Then JBM will go to addition class. Which method? Main
method. Step number one then inside what you did you have written add of 10 comma 20. What the
meaning of add of 10 10a 20 calling. Calling means what happened? Uh when I
call babu he's responding now when I call you are you responding to me? Uh
now you are a add method. I am the main method. When I call you you are
responding now. That means my voice is coming from my mouth to your ears. There you go. This is my mouth. From my mouth,
control is coming to your ears. Which method is coming? Add method. Add method
to here. Uh what the what the values are coming? 10 20. Uh what is stored in A?
10. Uh what is stored in B? 20. Understood? And then now this line
executed. What the A value? 10. What the B value? 20. Both are added. And what is
stored in C? 30. Understood? Next line executed. What is
the A value substituted here? 10. What the B value substituted here? 20. What
the C value substituted here? 30.
Understand the flow. And then finally output is displayed on the console.
Write down the flow of execution.
I will explain one more time the center flow. Current concentration is on logic execution of comments. Current chapter
is comments. You are deviated from comments to other stuff. Comments where I have written uh now in this program I
want to provide description where inside koda outside method outside method.
Outside method I want to provide description. What should I use? Java doc comment. Inside method I want to provide
description. Then what I should write single line comment or multi-line comment. Next point I want to comment
programming statement also I have to use what single line and multi-line com uh write on this arrow marks
flow of execution arrow marks also right I will explain the complete notes I'll dictate
step number one uh step number two calling this method is step number two
step number three it is going to add method from main method is going to add method step number Three. Step number
four, 10 stored in A. Step number five, 20 stored in B. Step number six, C logic
executed. Step number seven, SON is executed.
Totally seven steps are. Uh, still if you have any doubts, you
can ask. What is object?
Object is method. What is object? I don't know what is
object. If you explain, I can explain.
Sorry, forgot. Then why you are remaining? When you forgot something, why you are
bringing back?
Why you know why you are bringing outside knowledge to the class? You should come to the class with empty
brain. No what I taught that much only you should take extra masala. If you had
problems will come object we didn't cover that will come next.
Shib Inamar is it your first class
then why you not understand which stop you didn't understand tell me I'll explain
bhavana did I teach how to create a method why extra mala you are adding
did I explain method chapter
Okay. Do one thing everyone online students, offline students,
everyone please try to talk. Is this understood?
Okay. Is this understood? Uh, is this understood?
Uh is this understood? Is this understood? That's all
completed. Okay. Now why I have written this? None
of your business. Type as it is in your system. If I don't write it, how can I explain
the multi-line comment example? Understood? Why I have created this
program? to show you the develop a program to show the usage of
all three types of comments in adding two numbers. To add two numbers, I should write a program
and I should show the usage of all the three comments. What the use of document comment for providing description to a
class uh I have written on the heading.
Okay. Uh next I wanted to comment. What do you want to comment? Programming
statements. Multiple lines I want to comment. Where I can write multiple lines inside a method. So I have written
one method. How to write a method. You don't know. Just type as it is. This is called method.
First I have written this method. I don't like it. What you do? You have two option. Remove the method or you comment
the method. Uh comment completed. Why you are understanding how to create
method? I don't understand. current chapter is how to create method how to use comments.
Uh that's what the problem with you guys. You are going out of the context.
My students I am telling something you are asking your questions. Please stop asking questions and focus what I'm
saying. Uh tell me this is a logic. I don't want
this logic to present in my class. I have two options. Remove it. Place it.
Which one you want? Let it be there. But let not execute. What I should do now?
Comment. What comment? I have to use multi-line comment. Next, I am writing the method in a
different way. Either you write this or write this. This is called what? Method definition. Whenever you see what you
should say method definition. Uh now tell me in this method what I want to do. I want to take the two numbers add
those two numbers. uh printing while printing that number how many lines will come one line I don't want this line
what should I use single line okay now
uh in place of single line what I want multiple lines okay now two lines description I have replace two option
remove it or comment it comment okay once I write logic outside of the main
method once I write the logic outside of the main method is it automatically
executed No, what should I do? I should call it. How can I call? By using the
name. I taken that name and it is expecting the first value, passing first value. Expecting second value, passing
second value. Uh what is this? This is a method call. You don't know what the
meaning of this line. That's why I'm providing what description
tell me. Now this is a description. You don't know what is this. I'm telling it is called method definition. What the
meaning of method definition? Creating a new method. Uh can I write this create a
new method directly like this? No. Compiler will throw error. Now compile
it. Throwing error. Now I should tell
okay how can I tell to compiler comment? So compiler field. Okay. I don't read.
And then now compiler throw error for this line also. What should I do? Clear screen. Compile it. Uh now what is doing
throwing error for meaning of this? What? Now write comment. What is this? Write comment. Then tell me will you get
compile time error? No. Uh now compile. So I have written a program. Why you are
worrying about the logic? What I have written? Concentrate on current topic. What the current topic? Comment. Uh now
you don't know about what is this? I want to provide description. Where are you providing description? Inside me,
outside me. Hey these are inside method body open
bracket closed bracket you are writing inside that means what inside if I write
com description inside what comment we use document comment single line multi-line comment single line or
multi-line comment uh listen I want to provide description to this method outside and where this this line
starting line before uh tell me here I want to provide comment This method
this method is used for taking
okay is used for adding two integers
and prints the result
I should use single line multi document doc comment why because I'm writing
description outside so what /ster
uh when to use single line comment when to use multi-line comment when to use a document comment if I want to comment
one program statement if you want to comment multiple programming statements I should use single line and multi-line
I want to provide a documentation description I should use dock comment if you want to provide documentation within
the logic of the method inside the method that time also we will use single Single line comment or multi-line
comment. If you want to provide description then only we should write outside. Outside you should write then
only you should use document comment. Understand points. Uh let's write the notes. Now uh still any doubts online
students offline students still any questions?
All points are clear. Online students if you have still questions please ask.
Uh shall I proceed? Okay.
Uh tell me first point what is the comment
right check check already 1050 okay can you write these notes by your
own if I upload that this notes I want to see these notes in your notebook
sir you have to copy so the time will not be wasted look I'll I'll show you the notes
If you feel lazy and if you don't write notes,
you'll face difficulty coming classes. Look at here comment and types of comment. What is a
comment? Listen na
after class. After class don't do after class works in the class. Okay. Uh still you are in the classroom. only do
classroom work here. A comment is a special syntax using which we can inform
to compiler some part of the code no need to compile. Listen and also using
comment we can provide description to a programming element or a statement for
other programmer or only for us to understand in future. Tell me now I am
writing this description for whom purpose? For my sake and for other programmer's sake. uh I am commenting
the statement for compiler sake not to compile. So comment is used for
uh comment a a comment is a special syntax. It is used for com informing to
compiler some part of the code no need to compile also it is used for providing
some description to programming element for other programmer purpose. Okay. Huh.
Next we have how many types of comment? Three. Single line comment, multi-line comment, document. What the use of
single end comment? Single line and multi-line comments are meant for commenting programming elements and
statement. Programming elements means variable, method, constructor like this all programming elements and statement.
Statements means whatever you are writing inside the method. Whereas document comment is meant for providing
description or documentation for programming elements. Understand the three points. All the three points based
sample program you have written. Once again I provided here. Uh this is a documentation.
Documentation providing inside the logic outside log outside. So what should I use? Document comment. I am writing this
description. Description you provided inside method outside method. Outside method outside method no outside method
outside method means what I should use document comment okay document comment I have to use uh inside method I'm
providing description what should I use single line or multi-line this is a small program but I have given the notes
complete program okay now so hope all people understand comments got confidence paka tomorrow I will share my
life experience of the company two minutes I'll spend the time and tell the importance of the comments if you don't
use comments properly your life will be commented muted okay now so please practice today
example in your system type this program as it is how many programs I explained today two one comment on Java number two
this is this is amirate ada this is amirate sample program this
is highexity project both I have explained so expecting both you have to practice in your system and by these
three points and come. Okay. Now, thank you. That's all for today class. Hope
you all enjoyed. Uh we have started logical programming unit number two,
logical programming. Thank you.
HTML class.
Okay.
If I write SO
and if I write SOP F higher
between this first one is print method you are using
yeah first method you are using print printer
Huh? Okay. If you use both print f only print f of
double quotes high plus five you have written. Okay. How many arguments you have used here?
Only one argument. Which argument? String. Did you use any format specifiers? No. Then what the
meaning of this? Concare this five with high and give that string to printer.
Then printer will verify. Are there any format specifiers? No. Then it will print as it is high. Five
percentage D uh comma five you should write now. Plus you should not write. If comma then you
are giving what string to printer. Yes. Then print off method is verifying are there any format specifier? Yes.
Then this percentage replaced with file. So while working with the printf you
have two syntaxes either with the plus operator or with comma. If I use a comma
you must use format specifier. If I use a plus you should not use format specifier.
Output is same and yes.
NBC NBC architecture explain designed and solution.
What is the meaning of this sentence? I put it 100%. Okay. Now tell me this is my text. In
the text I want write comments. I want write here about comments something I want this types I want. This is the
problem to all faculties. I have written some text. Again I want
to talk about one particular word I want to highlight and explain. For that I need what one image editor. One drawing
tool we require. That drawing tool is the design pattern.
I develop a project. I develop first project. Second project. Third project.
Fourth project. In all projects I am facing the same problem. Then same
problem when you are facing there should be one common solution to all the problems or
there should be one expert who develop many projects then that expert should tell see Mr. Java developers when you
are developing project this problem number one problem number two problem number three there are 21 problems I
have identified whenever you are trying to this problem solution follow this step one step two step three step four
so that you will not face this problem a project will execute fast this solution step one step two step
three is a technically called what design pattern like this how many problems identified
21 problems identified All these 21 problem solutions together we are
calling one course called a design patterns design
uh you don't need to write anything already design everything just uh you identified your first problems then this
is the solution I should implement in your project you identified third problem then this solution you have to
implement clear my point that's what I'm telling all trainers having a one common problem
what is the uh drawing something on the text to draw something on the text I
need one drawing tool the drawing tool already developed by one company what I have to do I should again develop the
drawing tool no I have to install it and use it so that's this design tool
drawing tool is called what design pattern yeah just example I'm giving understood
the inbc told that first you have to
design the database then afterwards you are you have to design the model so uh I guess it's a diagram
how this work like I couldn't understand this
like user the meaning is this is the execution flow this is not the design flow design
flow is the one first database then following by
model model components. Uh first operation creating table.
Second operation insert the data. Third operation select the data. Fourth operation update
data. Fifth operation uh delete the data. With all these operations we have
program ready. So first step database following by model. Then if you wanted to store data everything first of all we
have to collect the data from the user. uh for the collecting from the user. Second step what UI design will be
there. Okay. UI what is the forms? What are the reports? What the collect the
input from the user? What the output should display to the user? All the details will be decided here. Now this
UI components and model components has to be connected for connecting purpose. In middle we are writing what controller
connecting controller taking the data from the UI and giving to model. model
taking the data from the database and giving to the UI. So what the first step model, second step UI, third step
controller. So that's why this architecture is named as MBC. So this is development architecture
design based based on design. Based on the design of the components architecture is named as MBCs. Okay. And
next flow of execution. What the flow of execution? First end user after develop this project what happen? End user. End
user interacting with the user. User means what? This UI screen, this UI
screen for the project user customer or end user or customer interaction with
the user. This user is talking to whom now? Controller. Controller. Controller.
User uses controller to submit the data to the project. Then controller with the
help of internal for Java program validations and calculations perform the
manip manipulations. Manipulations means what? Validations and calculations. If you want to perform validations,
calculation. For example, you are giving username and password. Now username you give some XM password some Jed. Then
this username password is submitted to whom? Now controller. How controller knows the given username password right
or wrong? That is information available in database. So how can we get the data from database? By using model.
So controller is giving that username password to the model. model running the select query. If the row is coming that
means this username password correct. If row is not coming username password wrong uh then controller performs
manipulations with the help of model components. Model components model
components has a generated result uh records available not available records
not available then what information should give to the user invalid username password. If data is available, your
email, inbox mails will be there. Now, inbox mails I have to update to the user. Then how this model can send
either error message or result to the user by using again report components?
Report components is nothing but view, right? Uh model component update. Update
means what? What the data we got here? Error. Error will place inside view.
view component that will show to uh then that view will show that to the okay now here when username password
correct we got what inbox mails that inbox mails inbox mails are updated
wherein view another view this is error view this is inbox view inside inbox view all the mails are substituted then
this inbox view will be taken and showing to us okay this view page sees
user means browser browser display that information so this is a flow of execution and this is design flow
Understood. One is when we are printing print
stream. What is print stream? Print stream is the class in which that method is available.
Now add is a method available which class addition. Addition. Okay. Sub is a method. A class
subtraction. Print is a method. A class print. Okay.
Okay.
Next.
Students,
any questions?
Yeah, you can write single line multi-line your wish
say
every daily you are attending class now why you are missing the class Google That's one
lady.
online students
are you there any doubts still you have
yeah so first I have to clear offline students doubts and then I'll clear
online students your doubts okay now so if you have doubts please end of the class. Uh
the sir if today is your first class you cannot understand because already we are in the programming.
Okay.
If you are IT background then only you can understand. If you are nonIT background you cannot understand.
Are you from it?
Uh do you know already how to write Java program? How to compile? How to execute and then
you can understand today class. Got clarity.
Okay.
One second. I'll share Google Classroom code. You can join.
Okay. Use this link to join class.
Yeah. Previous recordings also I'll share. First join.
Now any other student have doubts?
Please use a hand raise button. I will share. I mean uh
raise hand button there now.
Are your doors clear? Shall I end up?
Okay,
see you all tomorrow, guys. Bye.

