ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Last class we have completed comments
also we have completed identifiers and we have learned some points also on uh
which one is right identifier which is right wrong identifier also we have identified and we started also keyword
right so we have understood one or two points about keyword uh tell me what is a keyword
a keyword is a predefined identifier uh can I say Every predefined identifier
is a keyword. No. Class name is also predefined identifier. Yes. Variable
name is also predefined identifier. Yes. Method name is also predefined identifier. Yes. Okay. Uh so every
predefined identifier is a keyword. No. If you want to call predefined identifier is a keyword. It must be
reserved in Java program. Uh if it is reserved in Java program, can I say pred
keyword? No. It should perform one operation. It should perform one operation. So tell me what is a keyword.
Keyword whenever you say you must talk about two words number one result and should perform one operation. Suppose
I'm taking a a word called null. I'm taking one word called null. Null is a
keyword. No. Is null a reser word? Yes.
Again repeating. Null is not a keyword but it is a reserved word. So what is a
keyword? What is a reserved word? A word uh that is reserved and performing one
operation. Performing one operation then we call it as what? Reserve word. I mean
keyword. Did I save yesterday notes? I think no.
Let's see. Didn't remember whether I saved or not.
Uh yes save uh keywords a predefined identifier that
is reserved in Java language has a special meaning and performs one unique
operation in Java program is called what? Keyword. Is it clear my point? Uh now for example
tell me now class public static in etc are keywords. String is a
predefined identifier but not a keyword. String is a predefined identifier but
not a keyword. It is a predefined class name.
Okay. These are the points we have completed in last class. Next tell me if you want to perform one operation
everyone tell me if you want to perform one operation in Java program I have to use what keyword. Listen, I wanted to
open one notepad. Uh tell me now this program I'm saving with some name. Say
suppose I'm taking with name uh say addition already there. Let me take
subtraction. I'm saving with the name what? Subtraction. Ja. Uh tell me can I
write a program now? As per my wish. Can I write program as per my wish? No,
you cannot write as your wish. It is not your language. Hello. It is not your language. You cannot write as you wish
isn't it? And tell me what should I do now? Uh I have to tell to compiler listen
every sentence you are writing here you are telling to whom? Compiler. Okay. You
are telling to compiler compiler create a class with name subtraction. How can I
tell? Class by you half of answer you are telling by using the keyword class. By
using keyword class uh open bracket close bracket. Now compiler can understand. Yes. By using the keyword
class we are asking the compiler to perform an operation. What is the
subtraction? Create a class to perform operation subtraction. Okay. Now tell me
is this class accessible to other programs? I want to allow this program accessible
to other classes from different folders. within the folder allowed within your
house. Can you talk to your father mother? Yes. From Hyderabad to your native place, friends, father, mother,
can you talk? No. We need some extra. What is that extra? Phone. Uh, now I
wanted to declare this class to accessible throughout the world. Then what should I require? Public. Now tell
me by using the keyword public I am telling to the compiler. What I'm telling compiler allow this class to
access from other folders also. For that I'm using the keyword public. So tell me
what is the purpose of the keyword? A keyword is used for communicating to the
compiler and JVM to perform one operation for us. Understand my point
right? Understand what the purpose of keyword? Keyword is used for communicating to compiler and JVM came
to the class later again he went to the outside immediately to join to the class only
bringing body is not sufficient brain also important right tell me what the purpose of keyword is used for uh
communicating to compiler and JVM to perform one operation in the Java program what the what is the use of
keyword it is it is having special meaning and perform one unique operation
in a Java program. Who will perform that unique operation? I am performing a compiler JVM. Compiler and JVM. Okay. To
perform that operation, I have to use the keyword. I am using the keyword capital C.
Allowed or not allowed? I am using capital P. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Keywords are predefined.
Keywords are predefined. However they define in the same In sorry in the same
spelling in the same case I have to use or not. If you change the case or if you change the spelling is it allowed or not
allowed? Not allowed. Java is case sensitive. Read up the rule in using a
keyword. The rule in using keyword.
The rules. The rules in using a keyword R.
Number one,
we cannot use keywords as
user defined identifiers. Number two.
Are you done? What complete?
Did you write this center line? This also
we cannot use keywords as a user defined identifier. What else there?
Uh because they are res in Java language.
Because they are res in Java language. Next we must use keyword all letters in
lower case. Why? Because
keyword is predefined with
all letters in lower case node.
Java is Java is case sensitive.
For example,
is it right or wrong? compile them error because
Captor
class sample in
double D into double equals to 10.
Compile time error because double is a keyword.
One second.
Why keyword or what is the purpose of a keyword? Now tell me a keyword is used
for
A keyword is used for
communicating communicating tuna with
this is my confusion in English communicating with I should use to I should use her.
English masters communicating to communicating with
communicating with communicating to with why with why not to
come on all people are masters in English from childhood you are English medium only
very simple So
right in Hindi there is no confusion only single letter will work but in English lot of words are there
communicating to also correct communicating with also correct communicating to means one way direction
I am telling he is doing he's not returning to anything to me communicating with means two-way
direction is there I am telling that other person also telling telling to me tell me now I am communicating with the
students correct what the meaning of it I am telling something you are telling to me
back something two-way direction message passing is there then what communicating
communicating to means I'm sending instructions you are doing it you are not telling back to me anything then we
have to use what communicating to what should I use here with to
we are instructing compiler to do compiler not written telling do you anything right? Uh it is user for
communicating to uh compiler and JVM
Google yesterday I searched when I was preparing notes.
Okay. When I was preparing notes yesterday a keyword is used for communicating
to a with I searched. How I search? Simple. Go to Google.
Okay. I written here uh look at communicating to or with. Oh, there are
so many people have confusion on the same thing like me. Yes. Then both of
these prepositions are used after the verb. And some people may use them
interchangeably. A native to US speaker tend to use two if communication is more or less
unidirectional and with if multidirectional.
Okay, Google M. Okay, go ahead. Another a keyword is used to communicating to
compiler and JVM to perform one operation to perform one operation
in a Java program.
uh who will use this keyword. A keyword is used by developer
if you want right otherwise leave it don't say itchu. Okay, there is no wrong if you add also there
is not much meaning. Okay, just a field to write that's it. A keyword is used by
developer for communicating to compiler and JVM to perform one operation in a
Java program. I didn't buyart anything at home and coming here and delivering. Okay, I'm
not deaded person. I feel that is right. I'm writing that's it. Okay, in the middle if I do any adjustment you can
write you can write if you want write otherwise leave it. Uh a keyword is used by developer class public we are typing
for what? For communicating to compiler and JVM for what purpose? To perform an
operation in a Java program by developer by compiler.
uh by compiler and JVM.
We are asking the compiler and JVM to perform one operation by using keyword
developer asking compiler and JVM to perform one operation behalf of the developer.
Okay. Now the question you should get what are the different
operations? What are the different operations
we can perform in a Java program
by using keyword? By using keywords.
What are the different operations you can perform in a Java program by using keywords?
You want to feel Java easy or you want to feel Java tough?
Okay. Entire world Java feeling very tough. Entire world feel people are feeling Java very tough. Java is a
ocean. Now then when I was trying to join Java, there was a competition
between Java and net. Many people say Java tough.net is easy. Then I started
asking when Java is very tough, how these many people are learning, how these many companies are running, how
these many institute, these many faculties are surviving. Okay. I ask a question. Java first
invented, net first invented, Java first invented, net came next. Okay. uh then
when Java is already there in the market net is invented next means there is a
problem with the Java to overcome that problem of Java net came then I started asking myself analyzing asking with the
seniors I used to ask and working employees my friends ar in company when Java is used when net is used where Java
more popular where net is more popular I started asking the people everybody say that Java more popular for backend
net is more popular for front end and if you want to develop front end UI screens
with some little mathematical calculation net will be used your application is a very big you know
company related big mathematical operations okay big transactionals I mean money transaction doing lot of
security is required then Java is used understand yes uh
tell me which language will you choose now after this discussion Java orn What people are saying net for front end
screens to develop Java meant for developing back end more security
required more business applications I want to develop then people use Java then my mind told me arend
develop now net in the future may another language may come currently net
using maybe HTML may be used future or maybe another technology may come to
develop front end more easier and net but back end more security which language providing security Java only oh
if I choose Java my my my career will be long enough or not so I taken decision
that day and next I asked net is also language Java is also language telugu
also language Hindi also language in Telugu Hindi we are using only same
object what is that mango in Telugu we call mango as what you call mammade pandu in Hindi We call what? Oh from one
language to another language same concept will be there but the syntaxes terminology will be different
then when Java is tough net is also tough when net is easy Java is also easy
only way acceptance in my childhood Hindi is easy for me but math is very
tough my friend is there my friend always feeling mass is easy Hindi is
feeling very tough oh then I realize and slowly I'm asking myself what the right career for me right choice for me if I
feel Java is easy it is easy for me let me start feeling easy I as Java is easy
Java is easy I started going to the class I have seen Java is having a long enough it's it's a very you know huge
career will be there in Java I felt then I chosen JavaNet after four years gone from the market
Java still running as a number one language so Microsoft is struggling a lot to make the net to stand in the
market but Java happily it is going okay uh now what my question I'm asking you
want to feel easy or feel tough depending on your mind next
in academics we learn five programs very important class today you have to realize you have to set up your mind in
academics you learn four four five programs you learn that four five programs you written pass exam out of
100 100 marks after that that program in your life one day did you use? No. Again
you rejoin the course in the Amir for what purpose? Again to learn that four five program find a given number is a
palent room or not. Find a given number is Armstrong number or not. For that purpose you join. No we need a overview.
Java is huge. Yes it is a ocean. Uh what you have to learn how to balance your
boat in the water. Yes or no? If you want to go into the ocean when the big wave is coming how to balance and
balance you should learn not to not to sail the boat you should not learn how to balance the boat you have to learn
that's why fisher fisherman even though there is a huge cyclone is there also they wish to go because they
know how to balance the boat but you people by seeing a small wave also m running out are you catching my
point so tell me what you want to learn you learn keywords sir or you want to
learn operations performing by the keywords. Uh if I learn operations performing by
keywords automatically keywords will come with me or not. If you learn how to balance the cycle automatically cycle
rating will come or not. Are you understanding what I'm saying? If you know how to eat food, you can learn
chicken biryani, mutton biryani, fish biryani, anything you can eat. No eating is common but the content is changing.
uh the syntax is changing. So what you have to focus over
if you learn overview on the concept automatically the depth will understand
automatically to your brain. But the problem with the students whenever I'm trying to give overview the feeling hey
you are wasting my time on theory go to program program you don't buy hard program you have to develop by your own
how can you develop by your own when you know overview. So now next five minutes
is the most important for you. I'm giving you overview. If you remember this overview Java completed
Raja next five minutes if you focus Java is
completed tomorrow day after tomorrow onwards you are not learning anything new. You are
learning how to implement it. only you are learning if you know what to implement automatically you can
understand how to implement you want write a cycle to write a cycle what should I push if you know automatically
you can push that and write cycle so what you have to learn now programmer
how to write a programmer uh for writing how to write a program first what you learn what should I learn
what operation I have to do I want this operation how to do that automatically will come and then automatically started
doing it. Uh so tell me what is the first point you have to learn uh what is the purpose of keyword? Keyword is meant
for performing operation. Okay. Then if you wanted to perform operation first
you should learn what are the different operations you can per perform where Java program. Okay. I open notepad. This
is my Java program. Java file I created. Inside this Java file what are the
different operations I can perform in a Java file? I can perform totally 10
different operations. How many? Only 10 operations. How many?
10 is different. Only 10 is different. 10 operations means more 10 operations.
That fear feeling you will get. Only 10. Only 10. Okay. How many have to learn?
And only 10. There are no extra. There is no extra. 1 2 3 4. No. 1 to 10
operations that's it. If you learn these 10 operations that's all Java
programming is completed understanding it'll be
everyone come on tell me by using keywords what are you performing 10 operations you are performing how many
operations only 10 more than this 10 are you going to work anything no you are a
one year experience okay you are a fresher join the company in company projects development what are you
One of these 10 operations very common sense fellow. One of these
10 operations. Next uh I got the job with two years of experience developer.
What are you doing? Say one of these 10 operations only.
I have 10 years of experience. Got the job. Still these 10 operations.
You are just about to retired from the IT industry. What are you do these 10 operations?
Hey, understanding you are a fresher or so much experience
developer. What are you doing in the company? One of these 10 operations only daily not more than this.
Today morning idli you eat tomorrow dosa day after tomorrow chapati and the next
puri again next Monday repeated schedule understand my point you are one year or
two year 10 years every day in your company performing only these 10 operations what is the first operation
what is the adika ada meansa means referring the entire group of
people is called adika till you people know Assembly
there in assembly parliament what the people say uh
now tell me first one package creation
and usage don't write listen for the first operation
sir package package come on package packing and delivering
uh package and deliver. Listen, tell me from Amazon when you uh buy so many
products one delivery boy early morning collecting all the different pack
packages from okay suppose in SR nagar area one delivery boy is there to
deliver he is going to the Amazon office he's collecting all his area related things into one bag now uh that bag is
called what package and the each item is called class what do we call class there
are so many classes are there all are related to which area SR nagar then all
are putting in which bag SRA bag that SRA bag is what package so in the
project you don't create classes individual you will create classes under what package package creation and after
creating classes as a package you have to use these classes by a person or not how he has to take that class from the
package package out that is called what? Usage. The first operation you will do in a Java file is package creation. Next
operation is what? Using the package. For that we have some set of keywords are there.
First point understand then package ready. Once the pack is ready what you do? Huh? Once the package ready what
next we do in the package what I have to create? Class. Class creations. Come on. What you do? Class creation. Okay.
Inside a class, once you create a class, are visualizing class, class name, open bracket, closed bracket. Inside the
class, what you are going to create? Variables and methods creation.
Variables and methods creation. Wonderful. For creating class, we have set of keywords. For creating variables
and methods, set of keywords. Yesterday I told you once you create a variable or
a method, are they have automatically memory? Once you create variable or method you want to access it. If you
want access it should have memory in uh so tell me is the memory automatically available? No we have to provide memory
uh memory allocation. Uh for providing memory we have set of keywords.
Memory allocation. Super. Uh next once you provide memory everyone concentrate I created a class. Inside class I
created a variable. Inside variable what will be there? values uh those values we
are accessing from where methods inside method we are writing logic adding two
numbers logic subtracting two numbers logic find the given number palendrome or not find the given number Armstrong
number or not okay like this we are writing some logic tell me one yesterday I created a method called add method
with the two parameters inta inb for taking value remember uh tell me now
once I take that inb this integer value can be a positive number can be a
negative number can be any range number 1 digit 2digit 3digit 10digit but my
project is demanding I don't want negative numbers right babu my project
demanding sleeping what I did what I do now you are
sleeping did I allow you to sleep I I control your sleeping or not in Java
program also what should I do controlling Controlling
flow of controlling flow of execution
by verifying the given value is right or wrong. If it is a wrong throw error. If
it is a right perform calculations and generate result. Are you catching my point? Huh? Repeat once again. Once I
started writing a method inside this method I am writing logic 100 lines I
have written when I call this method all these 100 lines have started running from first line to last line now no I
don't want like that some statements I want to execute in some situation some statements I don't want to execute in
another situation some statements I want to execute repeatedly for 10 times
then what we call it as controlling flow of execution to tell to compiler go compiler execute
these 10 lines if the given value is positive. I go compiler execute these 10 lines for 10 times until value is 10.
How can I tell to compiler for I have to use some uh some keyword some keywords I
have to use. So tell me what are the minimum operations I have to develop logic five operation. What the first
operation
now repeat now a little progress each day adds up to
big results. Uh now let me tell you one thing my classes initial days all the
people will feel going slow okay going slow going slow going slow
suddenly you will realize am completed are you following initially your other
faculty friends other faculty friends who join with other faculties in a they
are going very fast you are going slow like a tortoise is finally who will win
rabbit toa to win the race. Okay, they're going very fast and completing syllabus very
fast. After 40 days of our syllabus completed, you will start realizing they
don't know anything. When you are talking with them, they will start asking you are you HK
product? I don't talk to you. Directly they will say are you HK
product? No, I don't want talk to you. They will go away. By the time you are going at 11:00 to your room, they will
run away from the room or feeling that sleepy or feeling like a busy. Why no?
They realize they have less knowledge. You have so much of knowledge. How can you get so much of knowledge? Really by
programming knowledge awareness. Awareness. What is the difference between experienced people and freshers?
Experienced people are having lot of awareness on the subject and fresher people are only focusing on how to write
a program not getting awareness. So when you are getting awareness by
adding little little little day by day by day by day one find you will realize that hey I know everything in Java I
don't know I I'm not missing anything. I'm feeling everything comfortable. Tell me I told you find compile time errors.
Now tell me day by day by day one error one error we are adding by the time after 20 days completed if I open a big
program and show you can identify error is there or not there it may be 100
lines or two under lines of program least bother you can easily identify this is syntax mistake error get out. So
that is what small small we are adding. Today we are adding what operations we are entering into logical programming.
For logical programming what I can do in a Java program you should know. And what the first operation you are doing
package creation and usage. Second operation class creation. Third operation variables creation and
variables and methods creation. Uh next memory allocation. Next controlling flow
of execution. Listen, whenever I am telling this or you are telling this, I am visualizing that operation in the
program. Are you visualizing? Are you visualizing only the sentence? No, you have to visualize the program. Uh
subtraction Java open first what I should create package. Next,
next usage package creation and next usage. After that class inside the class
variables and where are you seeing open bracket closed bracket with a space uh now variables creation next to variables
creation method method means what you visualize void m1 parenthesis open
bracket closed bracket uh inside the method control flow of execution I have so many lines of code is there in
academics did you know if if else for loop while loop dowh loop that is what
controlling flow of execution Okay. Uh next next point. Online students are you replying? You have to talk along with
me. Okay. Online off online offline students are now talking along with me.
You should also talk at your side. Uh there is a two benefits when you're talking at your side. Number one, you
will understand everything. Second, if you're talking in front of your parents,
your mother will prepare your favorite food. Yes or no?
When you are talking, when you retain you know you never study in your academics your mother and father are
dying like anything to see when you study you never study in your life. uh now when you're studying Java and
shouting outside and telling along with me then your mother when listening feels so happy and surprised shock and prepare
afternoon your favorite food chicken biryani mutton biryani whatever and your father also observed next month pocket
money increased right now two benefits are there so speak along with me uh next how do I
know I experienced from previous batches in previous batch one student told sir thank you so much because of you my
pocket money increased How along with you I'm telling sir my father feels so happy I'm working very hard so he's
increased my pocket money my mother is also preparing favorite food thank you so much uh look at here sir I want to
ask you one question you take your ATM ATM there go to ATM and ATM is asking
enter your card swipe the card any card you take huh swipe the card then asking
to pin enter pin number I'm entering pin number 1 2 3 4 accepted That means when you go to company, when
you go to ATM, ATM is having one operation called insert card validate
pin. How many operations are there? Two. That means background you are calling how many methods? Two methods. Am I
allowed to call swipe card? Yes. Am I allowed to uh call verify P? Yes. Am I
allowed to call withdraw method by default? No. Am I allowed to call deposit method
by default? No, you are allowed to call deposit withdraw method after performing some verification only. Now,
that means are you allowed to access any operation of your class by any programmer in the project? No. That
means what you have to do? You must set access level permissions.
You must set access level permissions. Who should access your method? Who
should not access your method? You have to set the permissions. Uh tell me uh if
you take other card can you change your address? You you no you can upload the documents
then government verify the documents and change. Are you allowed to change other number itself? No. That mean there are
some permissions to perform operations or not? Huh? Next again I'm asking another question. Observe. Okay. You are
the owner of the bank account. You, you, your father, your mother, your sister,
family, family at a time accessing withdraw method. Withdraw operation at a
time access on the same account. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. One after
one allowed. Yes or no? Uh suppose now this classroom you take this classroom at a time two faculties can use. uh here
this side all my students are there I'm standing on this das I'm teaching okay
that side row now other faculty taking class for student at a time two faculties are talking finally students
will come out and be both faculties or
now tell me that means once I define a method is this method allowed to execute
as I like at a time no that means not only access permissions I should also
set what? Execution level permissions.
Are you catching my point? We should set also what? Execution level permission. So tell me now first five operations if
you implement your program with the logic ready. But is that logic to access
by anywhere in the project? No. Is that logic to execute however you like? No. There should be some restrictions you
have to set. Uh tell me by developing these seven operation is your full program logic with the permissions are
ready or not? Everyone understanding? Uh now tell me guys I'm going to ask a question. What
is a lion? What is a lion animal? What is a tiger?
What is a bus? What is a car? What is a student?
Persona. Okay. What is a student? Person. What is a faculty person? Uh,
what is this table? Furniture. What is a table? Furniture. What is a
chair? Furniture. What is this projector? Electronic device.
Huh? What is a mobile? Electronic device. That means if you observe in the real world, everything is
comes under one common type or not. First we are defining the category.
First we are defining the group. Under that group all these objects will be there. Are you catching my point?
In Java I created one class then this class must have one group one
type. This type is called parent. What we call parent. Uh suppose I want to
create class lion. Lion is what? Animal. I should create class line as a
individual class as a child of animal class. If you don't create line as a child of
animal then line will be different type animal will be different type. Lion can be considered as a animal. No. If I want
to create a student in Java, I should create student as a child of what? Person. I should create bus as a person
of as a child of what? Vehicle. I should create the projector as a child of what? Electronic device. That means in Java
program once you create the classes I must establish
I should establish inheritance relation. Inheritance relation is what? Parent
child relation. Everyone understand? Tell me once I develop parent child
relation you are a child you know uh one parent is there for you now you bought one house you you buying one house tell
me in your house there will be a one bedroom for your parent also now uh now your house is divided into two rooms
master bedroom for you and parent bedroom for your parents child bedroom for child tell me my things will be
there in my bedroom my parents things will be in the parent bedroom child things will be in the child bedroom are
you catching my point Once I create parent child relation in a parent class
I created variables and methods. In a child class also I created variables and methods. I have to show the difference
between parent object members and child object members. For that also I need some keywords. Now huh representing
representing object. What object it is? Parent type child type and its and its
members and its members. Parent type members, child type members. Okay, tell
me just by creating variables and class methods and setting permissions is it
sufficient or not sufficient? Not sufficient. Is your program can come into the world and used by the people?
No. If you want to make your class available to the world, you must also specify your class representing child
type object, parent type object, you have to specify. Once you specify child and parent type then how do I want to
access parent class members I should use one keyword. I want to access child class members I should use what another
keyword are you catching my point for representing object either child or
parent and to represent the member child members are parent members I have some more classes some more keywords are
there everyone tell me by developing this entire nine operation is my project
fully developed or not? Yes. Suppose I am creating one a new company
called HK. What is HK?
Is it a mobile company? Is it a online shopping market company or is it a teaching company? What is HK?
Just I created a company called HK board is added then customers will come to into my office because there is no
clarity. Now I have placed HK programming world. Now who will come?
programming learning students will come. HK mobile manufacturing
uh mobile mobile showrooms people will come to buy uh HK TV servicing shop then
will come TV buying people will come TV servicing people will come TV got
problem they will come isn't it? Uh so if you wanted to release your product
into market just learning the skill is not sufficient. The board also should prepare properly. That board is nothing
but what? Inheritance. With the inheritance we prepare the board. Now final question is by developing these
nine operation my program is ready. What is Amazon?
What is Amazon? Online shopping application. Yes or no? Uh tell me who is the super class here?
What is the parent here? Online shopping is the parent. Amazon
child. Flipkart child. What do you call mntra? Mantra uh mntra
is also child. Understand? Next. Phone pay
child of UPI not online. UPI payment. UPI payment
is the parent class. Phone pay is a child. Uh Google pay is a child. I think
other pays are child. Understood? Now I am the customer. I want to do online
payment via UPI. UPI payment. I want to do then what will I do? Will I download
UPI payment? No. I will download Phone Pay. After phone pay downloaded or after
Amazon downloaded, open Amazon. Tell me Amazon product is ready in the
market. Everyone understand? Uh now as a customer okay tell me is Amazon come as
Amazon as online shopping? Online shopping Amazon is a class inside
contain variables. Methods. Okay. And uh in the methods we have control flow
statement and the method and variable declared as what static and the next uh we set what accessibility permissions
execution level permissions and make this maj subass of child class of what online shopping okay and also we
represent we by using keywords I'm able to access uh from the or online shopping
everything is ready now the product is released in the market who are you now customer you are accessing this Amazon
for doing online payment because it comes under the child of sorry online shopping it comes under the pay uh it
comes under online shopping application okay nice now I want to access or I want
to buy something first of all if you want to buy something I have to login now
login where is login uh now click on sign in I want to access
my project to access my project I am the customer as a customer I'm giving my
mobile number something something is there any guarantee that the customer
will give the right values there is a chance we'll get wrong values or not I
gave wrong mobile number and click on continue then the website should accept it and continue throw error
that means user doing mistakes on my project when user doing mistakes on my
project I should handle or not I did one big mistake in my life. I want
to let you know that day I also got shocked and my brother also there in a backside back seat he also get shocked
that is my initial days of learning car I already learn car and uh he want me to
learn the car driving on the highway road okay then I am going on the speed of you
know almost 80 km speed I'm running on the car I want to move from fourth gear to fifth
gear fifth gear will be there where upside now I am moving into downside.
Downside is what? Reverse. Huh? At 80 km speed. If reverse g is applied
then what happen? Car will be going cher
round right accident happen or not tell me is car allowed me to do not allowed
not allowed when I'm trying to move unknowingly to reverse gear it started giving sound.
[Applause] Okay. Car is given a sound to me alarm. Babu you are doing mistake.
Tell me car handle my mistake or not. If car is not handle my mistake today can I
teach you Java here? People understand my brother is deep sleeping with that sound. He wake up
right now. What are you? Nothing. No nothing. You can continue sleeping. Then I silently change to fifth gear. So tell
me what is the most important 10th operation I have to do?
Handling user mistakes. Handling user mistakes. So tell me
totally how many operations we perform in a Java program.
You are developing small buji hello world program or edition program. A big
Amazon project. You are developing daily your job is performing one of the operations in these 10 operations. Got
clarity? Tell me what you have to do. Listen, forget these 10 operations are listen
and remember and apply every day. Now listen, reply, remember, apply. Uh now
tell me tomorrow when you come to the class for what purpose?
To learn one of these operations only day after tomorrow one of these operation. Last day of our course one of
these operations only. So tell me core Java is nothing but
learning these 10 operations. If you complete these 10 operations, core Java is Kam language is completed. Java
language is completed. How many modules are there in our Java language?
How many modules we have? Fullstack Java five modules. Core Java is also okay.
Let me take units. How many units are there? Five. First unit is fundamentals
completed. Which ones? This one. Okay. Tell me fundamentals. In our first
unit, what you learn? Class creation. People learn first. First first unit is
already completed. Uh next one is what? Logical programming. Logical programming
means variables, methods, memory allocation, control flow statements.
Learning these three topics is nothing but control flow I mean logical programming. Uh then what is the object
oriented programming it is all
first 6 7 8 9 10 is nothing but object oriented program. Once you complete
these 10 operation first three units are completed you are strong in Java and
object oriented program. Then what next I use by using these 10 operation every
day we have to develop some common logics. What you have to develop common
logics you write I write in every project I have to write that common logics in every project I have to write
a or I should use readym made coder readym made code some micro system has already developed common logics readym
made code that common logics readym made code we are learning as part of Java API
that is unit number four once you complete all these logics and common logic business logic and common logic
then we develop on project to implement all these 10 operation that is last unit. Understand what you are learning
next coming 40 days or 45 days right? Next coming 40 45 days you are learning these 10 operations only already we
completed second operation remaining operations we are learning. So hope you got clarity on what you learn next 40
days. Uh right now what are the different operations you
can perform by using keyword uh in a Java program?
In a Java program by using keywords,
we will perform
below 10 operations.
Answer only 10 operations.
Add a smile face.
Only these 10 operations. Add a smile face back side.
Only these 10 operations. Put it in box. Are you copying or trying to write by
your own? Hey, don't copy. Already you learned. Show your talent. What? Try to recolct.
First one package creation and usage. Second one class creation. Third one. Third one. Third one not getting into my
mind. Then look uh memory allocation. Fourth one. First you ask yourself if your mind is not giving answer then only
look at screen. Don't copy from the screen.
Yesterday I told you I'll give you some videos right? Okay. Yesterday I recorded
still they are in editing some editing required because um YouTube has a short
except only 1 minute. No in that 1 minute that trying to be bring into one minute some adjustment is going on
editing is going on. Maybe today or tomorrow you will get the videos. Okay, entry questions you can practice at any.
It's not a big deal.
Can I have class this Sunday class? Can I take class?
Any exams? Any Sunday exams? Because already last Monday I have taken holiday. Now I should compensate that
holiday, right? If you're okay, I will take class. Otherwise, no. Sunday is your wish.
Okay. Sunday. If you don't class, then May 6th is the last class.
One day extra I have to take now. One day extra. No problem. S no class.
We can spend one more extra day and Okay. No problem. Sunday.
No. No. Sunday class. Saturday we will decide. Okay. Now
many people are saying no no no
Sunday and holiday sir who will come sir chicken day mutton day sleeping day
next Sunday. Okay. Now,
okay. Next Sunday. Okay.
Sorry. Confirm this Sunday no class. Okay. This Sunday no class. Next week again. Sunday. Okay. Now this Sunday no
class. Okay. Some other people say this Sunday no sir. Next Sunday. Okay. Okay. No problem.
Yes. Next confir
you to confirm some other students. No confirmation. Uh completed
you know MKkesh Amani also not this much busy as students.
You have very tight busy schedule. Okay. Uh fifth operation.
How many keywords how many keywords
are there in Java?
How many keywords are there in Java? Tell me how many keywords are there?
Uh very important. Faculty to faculty. uh one website to another website, one
YouTube channel to another YouTube channel keywords list is changing. So, but now we have to finalize it. Okay,
you are which version developer? Java 8 or Java 11.
Now there are two version Java developers in the market. Java 8 version, Java 11 version, Java 17
version. Not latest version, Java 21. Okay. Up to 17. Now companies are
upgrading. Java 8, Jamana over almost
all companies are migrating to 11 or 17. So your answer should be according to
minimum according to Java 11 version. You have to write down. Java supports
51 keywords. Java supports 51 keywords.
Sir my told 53 keyword sir.
Okay. Uh listen for performing
about 10 operations.
Java has 51 keywords.
Tell me are these keywords available 51 keywords available from the first version itself? No.
Among them 47 keywords
are available from Java 1.0 itself.
first version 1.0 itself from 1.0 we have 47 keywords added
in Java 1.2 2 version new keyword
strict TFP is added
in Java 1.2 version strict TFP is added. Now totally how many keywords become 48
in Java 1 poor version.
Another new keyword.
Another new keyword. Assert
is added.
How many keywords now? 49. Listen
wonderful order some ecosystem following 1.0 new keyword 1.1 no keyword 1.22
new keyword 1.3 no keyword 1.4 4 New keyword totally how
many are there up to Java 8 let us consider Java 9 up to Java 8 let's consider okay uh tell me 1.5 new keyword
there or not there uh not there you are showing your talent rate some micro
system unfortunately for comes to that that order okay is they they're not following that order actually alternate
not following right Java 5 version one more new keyword
One more keyword. What is that? Enum. So don't come to your own conclusions. That's why I'm saying don't show your uh
is added. What is that keyword?
So up to Java 8 version we have how many
keywords? 50 keywords from Java 5 6 7 8
any new keywords are there? No. Uh then in Java 9 version
in Java 9 version single underscore
single underscore is made as keyword
underscore was there in Java from 1.0 zero but as a keyword or not as a keyword
not as a keyword as a just a special character from Java 9 version onwards it
is made as a keyword so totally 51 keywords are
from Java 10 version.
Uh do you have any new keywords? Come on, there are not there. How many
keywords? I told 51. There are any other keywords? No. But there is a twist here
from Java 10 version. New
words are added but not as
keywords. Why? From Java 10 version also. From Java 10
version also new words are added but not as keywords.
52 keyword 52
any type any mistake I did. Dan 47.
Okay. 47 48 49 50 51 Do you know any new keyword Dash?
Then why are you showing your T? Uh from Java 10 version also
new words are added but not as keywords. Why? Tell me. If added as a keyword,
what is the problem? If somebody is added as a keyword, what
is the problem? Uh let me tell you one thing in Java 5 version entire Java
community suffered a lot. Every project they have redeveloped because of the new
keyword inum. In Java we have a interface called we
have a one type of class called enumeration. For creating object of enumeration we
have written enumeration space enum equal to new enumeration we have written
this statement in project many places we have written Java 5 version when I
upgrade from Java 1.4 42 Java file then the project's compilation failed because
enum is a keyword just now in the previous example we have written what the rules in using keyword can I use a
keyword as my identifier no if I use a keyword as identifier suppose if I write
here int enum equals to 20 compiler not compile not compile because enum is a
from which version onwards Java file before Java 5 is enam keyword no Now
tell me it is compile time error from which version? Java 5 version onwards.
Then tell me from Java 5 any Java when I upgrade from Java 4 to Java 5 I have to
change this keyword name variable name or not. Is it happen in one project or in every project in the world?
Tell me if you add some word as a keyword projects are getting affected or not. That's why Java 10 version onwards
listen carefully from Java 10 version onwards also new words are added but not
as keyword for avoiding
compile time errors and to allow using these words
as identifiers. Yes. Right now, right now, right now
from Java 10 version onwards,
These new words are called as
are calling as number one restricted
uh
restricted keywords. Number two,
special identifiers, restricted keywords
and restricted keyword. This word is Java 9 only
special identifies from Java 10 version.
from Java 10 version. Java you can add here nine also on top or side somewhere.
From Java 9 and 10 version
from Java 9 version and 10 version onwards these new words are calling as
restricted keywords special identifiers. See
now tell me there is a confusion now sometimes I am saying keywords sometimes
I am telling restricted keywords sometimes I am telling what special identifiers there is a confusion now
that's why
from Java I think 19 version please give me 2
minutes let me check once let me confirm
Ara Gupta, what are the keywords? Tell me.
Give me the list of keywords.
Why you showing your talent?
What? Okay. This is called sugar problem.
Understood? I didn't give the list of 51 keywords.
First I preparing the terminology. Why you are unnecessary confusing your brain?
What are you talking something I'm doing? This is for my sake
or your sake. My sake
for your sake. I'm trying to do something here. What am I doing? Look at the screen here. What I'm clicking? What
I am changing? Which version I'm verifying? Where I am verifying? Is it not your work?
something I'm doing on the screen. What I'm doing, where I'm clicking, what I'm clicking, check. You only has to do this
all verification in the future by yourself. Uh we don't
uh look at here from Java 17 version onwards.
A new terminology is came. All keywords are divided into
two groups. Reserved keywords contextual keywords.
Uh listen up to Java 16 version the terminology is like this identifiers.
H uh only one word is there called word keyword. How many keywords are there? 51
keywords. Dist is there. Next, there is a word called here. If you go look at
there where, yield, record are not keywords, but they
are restricted identifiers. This term restricted identifier came from the next
version. Initial version. If you choose the Java 10 version, one second I'll show you that
in somewhere in the middle version that got changed in Java 10 version it is
called special identifier lexical structure keywords.
Okay. Huh? In Java 10 version, what's on micros systemystem calling it as? It is not a keyword rather an identifier with
a special meaning. So what is this special identifier? It is a special
identifier. So in the next version somewhere they have changed the word to what? Restricted identifier. Restricted
keywords restricted identifier or special identifier. Now tell me what is
the meaning of restricted? That means is this word considered as a keyword
everywhere? Some place only. Uh this is a restricted area. Everyone can go
inside. No. MLA, MP, CM only can go. Ordinary people can go inside. No. When
they are coming outside on the normal road, who are they? Normal person. When they entered inside, then who are they?
CM, PM. Tell me. Now I am standing on this das. Then you will be call me as what? Faculty. You are there. He will
call what? Student. uh we both people going on the road who are you on me keywords are catching my point so what
is the point I'm trying to tell in some special programming place these words are considered as a keywords remaining
place consider as a normal word you can use as a identifier hello but the first 51 keywords are keywords you cannot use
anywhere as a identifier so the first 51 are the keywords they are result you
cannot use as a identifier remaining these These words newly coming from Java 9, Java 10 version. These are also
keywords but they are not rest. They are not regular keywords. They are reserved words. Some places you cannot use them
as a keyword. Some places you can be sorry. Some places you cannot use them as a identifier. Some places you can use
them as a identifier. Is it clear my point? Uh from Java 17 version onwards
the terminology changed. What is that? from Java 17 version
all these 70 around three are there but all these
underline that words I didn't remember exactly one second let me check uh one minute
let me check uh my pre prematerial 73
totally 73 words are there I guess quickly I'll check and give you the What a
if it is there here we'll see I didn't remember exactly
uh totally 70
one more 70 I have to learn now don't worry from Java 17 version
onwards.
All these 70 words are
grouped into two categories.
Number one, reserved
keywords. Number two,
contextual keywords. How many reserved keywords? 51.
How many are contextual keywords remaining?
H. Any remaining? 19.
1 second. This one don't take as 19. This is 19 - 3. 16. 16. Third one.
Default literal or you can say
1 second sir in place of default better you write
reserved literal reserved literal three
reserved keywords contextual keywords reserved literal
All 51 keywords and three result literal.
We cannot use them as userdefined
identifiers
either as class name.
either as a class name
or variable name or method name.
It leads to compile error.
The contextual keywords
How many? 16
can be used as user defined
identifiers.
can be used as userdefined identifiers
in some part of the program.
They act as keywords. So
they are named. So they named as
context based on the context you have to behave right. There is a context means what? Based on the situation uh as
context keywords
they are named they named
They named they are giving name to other person. Right? They are named as context keywords.
Contextual keywords.
Contextual means situation. In bracket you can write situation.
Uh now the question
what the point number five or six
put confusion point how many keywords are there in Java?
How many reserved words there in Java?
If this question asked in the interview, what will answer?
How many keywords are there in Java? I didn't explain anything. I gave you only
listister. I didn't explain. I didn't give the list of keywords. I didn't explain the contextual program means
just I'm giving you situations except Rasami
tell me without explaining you asking question then you are called contextual.
Okay. Now without understanding situation you are asking question and tell me how many keywords are there in
Java. 51 you say 51. Uh how many reserved words
are there in Java? 70 keywords also reserved. Now
keywords are also reserved. So you should count that 51 also. Understand?
Uh tell me how many how many
reserved
or default literal are there in Java 3. This is the answer
you have to remember. Enter. You may ask any question. There are some confusion. Masters will be there. They will ask
question whatever they wish. I cannot do anything. This is the actual answers.
How many keywords are there in Java? 51. How many reserved words are there in Java? 70. How many reserved are default
literal are there in Java? Three. Babu. 70 + 3. No.
Understand? This 51 3 are inside what? 70.
Did you write this question? Better wait.
Let me ask in a different way. One second. One second.
Better. Let me ask seven. How many result it was? Three.
How many
restricted keywords. Uh 10th.
How many restricted
identifiers? Six. Uh total count how many are there?
Totally. 70k. Yes.
70k. Huh?
How many reserved words? 70. All these are considered as what? Reserved words.
But the reserve words are divided into three categories. One second. One more question.
How many
contextual keywords are there in Java?
Uh 16. What are the 16? 10 + 6
restricted keywords. 10
restricted identifiers six.
Then totally how many reserve words are there in Java? 70. Any question may ask interviewer you
should able to answer. Who is your first interior?
Who is your first interior? I am the first interviewer. Next interviewer,
you yourself. Who is the third interviewer? Advance our faculty.
Who is the fourth interviewer? Spring boot faculty. Uh who is your last interviewer? Company
interview. Understood? So tomorrow I'm going to ask you all these questions
expecting everyone to answer. Can you sir what are the keywords comes under 51
I want to know the list sir. So tomorrow can you spend 15 minutes? Today I got
some lot of knowledge actually I'm I have covered up to 21 all that terminology because of this terminology
some excess time I have taken. Okay. So tomorrow we will list out all these seven key words and then we'll start new
chapter we'll buyart all these content and come
today class is very important class for entering into logical programming for next 40 days of your class understanding
or not understanding is depending on today class today class if you neglect study tomorrow you'll face the
Everyone understand? Tell me what did we learn in today class? Let's quickly revise.
Uh we learn what is a keyword. Tell me check what is a keyword?
Keyword is an identifier. Predefined identifier. It has a special meaning in
Java program and perform one unique operation then only we call it as ident
keyword. If it doesn't perform any operation can we call it as a keyword? No, we call it as just a reserve word.
Uh tell me uh next what are the rules we must follow in using a keyword?
Hey two rules. How many rules and what are they? Two rules. Number one I should
not use it as a identifier. Number two, all letters should use in lower case.
rules. What are they?
Unable to hear. Speak louder. Shout. Uh second
ask your friend. Ask by ask.
We can use her. We cannot use her.
We cannot use with lower case. We can use her. We cannot use her.
We must use all letters in lower case only because it is predefined. Java is
case sensitive. Okay. Why you are talking to your friend is class
completed and then extra time if you do that one mad.
Next tell me what is the purpose of keyword?
uh to perform one operation by compiler and JVM to tell to compiler and JVM to
perform one operation and next what are the different operations we can perform 10 come try quickly what are the 10
package creation and usage class creation variables methods creation
memory allocation controlling flow of execution setting access level
permission setting execution level permission Establishing inheritance relation
representing object and itself members handling other mistake seventh onwards
only coming up up to 61 words came after
said okay how many keywords are there in Java 51 how many keywords are why two
times
Why two times Java supports 51 keywords?
One second here. I should write one more question
or 50. Okay. What are the
what are the new keywords? What are the keywords? Okay. Say
are these 51 keywords available
from first version
Java 1.0. What the answer? No. Okay. Uh next
you don't write. Okay. Tell me
uh why. Okay.
What is the meaning of restricted
keywords and identifiers?
Okay. from which version
these restricted keywords and identifiers are
available.
Okay. And next step,
what is the meaning of
Or I can say that
what are the new names used from Java
17 version for keywords.
Okay. 10 11 12
13 14 15.
Uh now tell me are these 51 keywords available from first version? No. How
many are there? 47. Okay. What is the meaning of restricted keywords and
identifiers? There are some new words added from Java 9 and 10 version. They are not act they are not completely
keywords. Some places they are considered as a keyword. Some places they are not considered as a keywords.
And we can use we can use these keywords and identifiers as a userdefined identifier. From which version these
restricted words and identifiers are available? Nine version onwards. Now what restricted keywords available? 9
version Java 10 version onwards restricted identifiers are available.
What are the new names used from Java 17 version for keywords? Reser words uh
resert words context res keywords contextual keywords and restrict sorry
result literal reser literal uh tell me how many keywords are there in Java? 51.
How many reser are default literal available? Three. How many restricted keywords are
available? 10. How many restricted identifier? Six. How many contextable keywords?
16 totally. How many reserved words? Seven.
So you have to remember and tomorrow we will send spend 15 minutes time to complete understanding 17 words. You
have that capacity remember. Okay. Uh these 15 questions requesting all the people practice and come every every
point you have written notes. Clear my point. Can I expect tomorrow class is very very important
class? No. Uh after tomorrow onwards can you challenge your a friends? Uh shall I
ask one question? Everyone go to your Amit hostel in hostel find someone who
learning Java. Ask them what is a restricted keyword? What is a restricted
identifier? What is a totally how many keywords there in Java? Totally how many reserve words are there in Java? What is
a contextual keyword? from which version it is added. Ask these questions not for
teasing them, not for insulting them, for improving your knowledge. Knowledge
grows when you share your knowledge. Whenever you share this knowledge to your friends, immediately they will tell
you one statement. What is that? Not required.
Understand my point. This all bakquas knowledge time wasting not required. Not required. How many letters in English
when they say 26 not required now why you are learning? So how much more letters vocabulary
knowledge you have that much more English or Hindi Telugu speaker you will become you know right. So tell me
letters are completed how many letters in Java three what the three classroom main method s letters are over and now
what you are learning now vocabulary. Vocabulary how many words are there? 70
only in English. How many words? So many infinite infinite. But in Java
restricted how many 70 if you learn 70 vocabulary then learning Java, building
the Java statements, building Java paragraphs will be easy. So tomorrow class is most most important. Don't
miss. Thank you. Good night.
Java software is a platform dependent. Java program fully platform independent.
Okay. Eight.
Three. that is small mistake I will get in that
book there is a small the topic didn't cover now I'll come next Monday I'll come Monday we are entering into object
oriented programming data totally eight programming elements basic
eight totally 23 totally 23
eight
All students, any questions?
How to develop logic? Next class.
Say damir already updated. Read volume I mean read the Jax material one.
In Jax material one complete notes is there.
already uploaded now
in a classroom introduction to Java
Jerox material one second chapter also there
already uploaded. Bhagavan
AM 51 keyword reser
next 10 restricted across and six reserve vot
He's just done.

