ript


Ah right good morning everyone.
So last class we are trying to understand keywords and I gave you uh
different keywords given in different versions. I mean the terminology I gave you. So finally Java 21 version onwards
I mean Java 19 Java 19 version onwards we have the terminology for using the
keywords is reserved keywords and contextual keywords right
okay uh there are totally 70 keywords are there sorry totally 70 reserve words
are there you should not say keywords you should say reserve words totally 70 reserve words are there among Among them
47 were available from Java 1.0.
New keyword strict FP available from uh strict EFP is available from 1.2.
Next from 1.4 4 onwards we have SR 1.5
or five version onwards enum 9 version onwards underscore in Java 9 version we
have 10 new keywords are added 10 new keywords in Java 9 version in addition
to the underscore we also have 10 more new keywords are added are those 10
keywords are called keywords are restricted keywords restricted keywords why are they called restricted keywords
because those keywords are act as a keywords only in one area, one
particular area. That particular area is called module program. What we call
module program as part of the module program only they are considered as a
keyword. Suppose I am creating a class called example open bracket closed
bracket. Now this is a module program area class program area
what I have written class example. Now this open bracket closed bracket is
which area class area inside the class can I create variable? Yes, the variable
name can be any of these 10 words. So totally how many keywords available
in Java 9 version? 10 new keywords. These 10 new keywords are not called as
a keywords. They are called what? Restricted keywords. What the meaning of
restricted? They are considered as a keyword only some area restricted area
this much area only the tigers has to come restricted area you cannot go inside only few people can go uh then so
the keywords which are considered as a keywords only in the module program not
considered as a keywords in other program like a class program we call them as what restricted keyword is it
clear next in Java 10 version we have one special word we got called rare v A
R or where. What the word? Where? V A R where. So this where is not a keyword is
not a restricted keyword. It is just a identifier. Identifier means what? Name.
It is just a name. Uh can I use this just a name as my user definfed identifier? Yes, I can use them as a
user definfined identifier. No problem. But in some cases it is having some special meaning. So that's why it is
called as what? special identifier or restricted identifier. Special
identifier or restricted identifier like where in next version Java 11, Java 12,
Java 13, Java 14. Next version totally we have extra five more words are there. Totally how many are there? Six. These
six special words are called special identifiers or restricted identifiers.
Is it clear everyone? So totally how many words are there? 70. Now the 70 are divided into three categories. Number
one keywords. Number one keywords. Number two restricted keywords. Number three
special identifiers. Number four restricted sorry
result literal. Reserved literal. I repeat once again. First one keywords.
Second one reserve literal. Second one reserved literal. Third one restricted
keywords. Fourth one, reserved identifiers or special identifiers. What
is the order available? First, keywords. Next, literal. Literal. Reserved literal
or default literal. Next one, reserved keywords. Reserved keywords. And then
special identifier. So, our 70 words are divided into four categories. Uh,
literal I mean keywords, literal restricted keywords, special
identifiers. Clear my point? These 70 words are according to our initial
onwards these are the four categories but Java 19 version onwards having these many divisions is confusion to the
people that's why they make it as what two groups what is that reser result
keywords and contextual contextual keywords so now how many reserved keywords are there 51 contextual
keywords how many are there 60 so this is what we discussed in last class uh okay what I am trying to think now
instead of giving this entire list now anyways you cannot remember it's a waste of the time what I am trying to tell I'm
going to upload all these uh notes you just copy into your notes clear my point
instead of spending the time here to copy all these keywords list I will upload the file the complete list of the
keywords under the each operation how many keywords are there just make a notes by your own uh so that in coming
days going on going on that cate Category keywords only one one topic we are using as a chapter and trying to
learn. These are the 10 operations. Package creation and usage some keywords are there. Class creation some keywords
are there. Variable and method creation some keywords are there. Let us pick one one chapter one one topic. What are the
keywords under that? What are the purpose of each keyword? How to write a program we are going to learn. Is it clear? So instead of wasting the time of
listing all the keywords you will not enjoy much. Okay let's not waste the time. Let's move to the next chapter now. Okay. Leave one page.
Complete one paper. Front to back.
Complete one paper. Front back paper. Leave it. And I will share these documents in the Google classroom. Later
you try to copy. And next reser words. What is the difference between keyword and result word? Listen. Keyword perform
one operation. Resizard word doesn't perform any operation. That's called resert word. Okay. Uh next for example
you take null is a reserved word you take a true result word they doesn't perform any operation okay next tokens
tooken means what a smallest unit in a program Java tokens and types of Java
tokens what is a token a token is a smallest unit in a program suppose I am
taking this program here observe now class addition can you understand this code now daily we are discussing it into
a equal to 10 into b equal to 20 into c equal a + b. Now in this program observe
carefully here this addition open bracket closed bracket this entire big
picture is represented by the keyword called word class. Next open bracket to
closed bracket that entire big picture is represented by what? Addition. So what is a token? A token is the smallest
unit in a program that cannot be divided further. A class class is a one token.
Name addition one token. Uh totally Java program is divided into five tokens.
What many tokens? Five tokens. Uh class addition class in int. Tell me what all
these are. Come on. Come on. Class int int. What
these are? Class is a keyword. Uh int is also a keyword. What all these are? Keywords.
Tell me without keywords can you write a program? No. Next. Now observe now addition A B C what these are?
Wow. Super identifier. Next equal to equal to plus what these are? Mathematics
operators. Super. Uh 10 to 20 values maths
according to programming they are called lit. What they called? Literal. 10 20
are what? Literal. And next open bracket, closed bracket, semicolon, semicolon. What these are called?
Now what these called? Separators. What they are called? Separators. So totally
how many tokens are there in Java? Java has five tokens. Number one, keywords,
identifiers, operators, literal, separator. Now tell me a Java program is
it one line code, two lines code, 100 lines, thousand lines. A Java program is divided into or a Java program is
developed in a combination of totally five tokens keywords or you can start
with what identifiers keywords literal operators separator. Tell me who will
tell this identifier is what type is it a class type or is it a variable type or
is it a method type? Who will tell? Keyword will. So keyword will tell this
identifier is a class or variable or method. And next now if you create variable I have to store value. What is
the value we call literal whenever whenever I'm trying to create a a a a
variable I have to store that value in a variable. For that I need what operator.
Next once I create one statement I want to separate first statement to second statement. I want I want to separate
from one class to another class. I want to separate from one method to another method. For that I required what
separate. So without these five tokens it is impossible for you create a small
bougie program hello world program also. So you have to understand what is a
token. How many types of token Java support? First point what is a token? A token is the smallest unit in a program.
Okay. And it cannot be further divided. Tell me in real life you have any token.
In real life have you come across the word token in real life? No.
What the token?
When you park your bike, you take you taking one token. When you park your car
token, when you put your luggage in a clock clock room, they're giving one token. Tell me using token a big thing
is identified. A big thing can be identified by using a
token. A smallest unit in a program using which we identify a big program is
called what? Token. This big program is identified as a class by using the token
class. This big program is named by using a token called what? Addition. Uh
this variable is type is represented by the token what in. And this variable access by using the token identifier.
Okay. So a token is understand. How many tokens are there? Five tokens. Nice. And
tell me how many a token is the smallest unit a program that cannot be further divided. Using a token we can identify
programming elements and perform some operation. Java supports five types of tokens. And tell me what how many
identifiers are there? Identifiers.
Okay. Programming elements is nothing but identifier. How many programming elements are there? Eight. How many
programming elements? Eight. Next class Monday I'm going to teach you that. Uh how many keywords are there?
51. How many literal are there? Seven.
Reserve literal are three. But total number of how many types of literal are
there? Seven. How many operators are there?
Operations are 10. to perform those operations. 51 keywords operators are
meant for not developing the program to perform mathematical operation. Totally how many operators are there? Plus 2,
minus 2 like that. How many operators are there? 40.
How many operators? 40. Separators. How many separators are there? Separators
and open bracket. Closed bracket. Open parenthesis. Closed parenthesis.
Open square bracket. Close square bracket dot semicolon colon double colon
12. How many are there? 12. Okay. Identifiers actually I mentioned nine.
This number is wrong. Okay. We have some more also added. Uh keywords I mentioned 50. And which version I was writing?
According to which version is not there? Eight version. In Java 9 onwards we have
50. uh literal seven operators 40 separators 12 okay what are the list I
have given here okay now I will upload this notes I want
you write very very important point there is a double colon which is given
in Java 8 version and there is a there is a uh arrow there is a arrow given in
Java 8 version double colon people are calling it as a oper Operator arrow
people are calling it as a separator. People confused be careful. Okay. Double colon is not a operator in Java. It is a
separator. Arrow is not a separator. It is a lambda expression operator. So
these are two points you have to remember. Okay. Now uh now our chapter finally we completed these points. I
will upload the notes. Please copy today into your notebook. Don't leave them as
the slides in the Google classroom. Understand my point? All points I'll upload. Uh you have to copy it so that
you will be in a good idea. Uh what is a comment? A comment is a special syntax.
What the use of comment? For ignoring compilation and for providing description. How many types of comments
are there? Three. Single line, multi-line document. Program FAQs. We
have understood. Next, what is identify? Name of a programming element. What the
use of identifier? It is used for providing name to the programming element. and further accessing from
other programming element. How many types of identifiers are there? Totally there are okay let me count module
module is there module next uh package class interface abstract class concrete
class final class enum annotation.
Okay now and next we have something called generic parameter and we have something called label. Totally we have
10 programming elements. Okay, let me let me count once again. 10 identifiers are there. Identifiers is nothing but
providing name to whom I can provide name. Number one module to the module I
have to provide name. Number two package. Number three interface you
cannot remember. Next Monday I can make you remember. Okay. Interface, abstract class, concrete class, final class,
enum, annotation, record. Okay. And then following by label
label generic parameter. So totally how many are there? 11. Uh how many identifiers are there? 11. Types of
identifiers. 11. Then what the rules we are to follow in creating identifier? Seven rules we are to follow. FAQs.
Identifying what is a valid identifier. Next, what is a keyword? Keyword is a
reserved word. Every reser word is a keyword. No. Every keyword is a reser word. Yes. So what you should answer? A
keyword is a predefined identifier which is reserved in Java language. So let's not say it is a reserved word because
people may confuse. So it is a predefined identifier or it is a result word perform one unique operation in a
Java program. Resizard words just don't say reser word and leave. You have to say word perform one special operation
in a Java program. Uh what are the different operations we can perform by using keyword? 10 operations. Uh what
are the keywords listed? Totally how many keywords are there? 51 keywords. FAQs we have understood. Java 9 newly
added keywords from Java 9 onwards. We have underscore as a keyword. We have 10
restricted keywords are there. Uh and we have totally 67 reserved words are there
up to which version? Java 9 version. Okay. In Java 10 version, 11 version, 12
version extra more three keywords we got. Okay. Uh then next what is a result
word? Number of reserved words. What is a result word? A word that is reserved in Java language and cannot be used by
programmer as a identifier is called what? Reserve word. How many number of reserve words we have? 70 reserve words
are there. What the difference between reserve words and keywords. Reserve word doesn't perform any operation. Keyword
perform what? Operation. So as a as a result keywords we have 51. as a
contextual keywords reserve words we have what 16. Next what is a Java token?
A smallest unit in the program that identifies the programming element from other programming elements is called
what? Token. How many types of tokens we have? Five. What is the separator? Uh a
symbol that differentiate a symbol that separate one programming element to another programming element is called
what? Separator. How many separators we have? 12 separators. What are the 12 separators? Uh, open parenthesis, open
bracket, closed bracket. Two, open bracket, closed bracket. Then next, open
round bracket, closed round bracket. Next, uh, round square bracket open
square bracket closed. Six dot dot dot and next semicolon. Next
colon will be go under operator section. Okay. Now, colon will go operator section. Next uh three dots. Three dots.
Three dots. Okay. At the rate and double colon. Okay. Totally there are 12. One
more is there missing. Comma. Okay. Now comma. So totally 12 separators are there. Next. What is the where? In Java
10 version we got where. In a Java uh 12 version I guess we have yield and in
Java 14 version we have record. Uh 1 second sir. 73. Okay. Now totally how
many reser words are there? 73 not 70. Okay. Next we have sealed. One more new
in Java 15 version. I guess we got more three words called sealed permit
non-sealed. There are three words are there. So totally how many reser words are there? 73. 73. Totally 73 are there.
So already we have here 67 uh 67 we have and here the three were yield record
along with this extra words also there. Okay I will send the list of the keywords you can follow it and make a
notes I clearly version numbers also I have mentioned clearly. Okay. So finally this is the chapter most important
chapter for you. You have to remember everything keywords. If you cannot remember also no problem going on
chapter by chapter we are learning and at end of all chapters completed again we will list out all the keywords but
you must compulsory practice comments identifiers keywords basic points and
then compulsory you should understand token separator you have to remember. Okay nobody. So this much we have to
understand list out the keywords even if you not remember also no problem but you should have a notes. Okay. Leave one and
a half page. One and a half paper. Leave one and a half paper.
Two sides. Totally three sides. You leave. Three sides you leave.
Three sides you leave. Okay. Now I will upload all points after class
completed. Uh all of people ready. Shall I go next chapter now?
working with edit plus online students any confusions
any doubts
take working with edit plus working with edit plus chapter number
three come on guys come on come on working with edit plus
which settings which settings
path class. Why you want to know path class now?
Is there any problem running programs in your system?
Then what is your problem? When I read I will teach. Okay.
Huh? Listen demo video is not shared. Okay. I will
share today. I will share it. Okay. Don't worry. Come on guys, concentrate.
What is edit plus? There you go. This is
This is Ed Plus. Ma please listen.
What is Ed Plus? Yeah, this is Ed Plus. Okay, open this.
Okay, open this. This is edit plus
like notepad. Edit plus is also a editor software.
Understood? Again repeating. Like notepad. Edit plus is also a one editor
software. Editor software. Okay. When you have already notepad,
when you have already notepad, why we need 80 plus?
Okay. When you have cycle, why you need bike?
No, not cycle not having many benefits. It's just everything manual. You have to
push the pedal. You have to balance everything you have to uh if you want to go up uh you know up slide up. Okay. You
cannot push the pals that much fast. If you choose by, it is providing some
extra benefits. Lot of automation you are going to get. Isn't it? Observe. Edit plus is having
some extra benefits in the development. Notepad doesn't provide any benefits.
While developing the code, we need several uh extra typing help we require.
First problem, Notepad is having several problems. First problem, there is no
code template. Code template. What the code template means? Tell me. If you want to write a
program, what is the minimum you have to type? Class, class name, open bracket,
closed bracket, main method, s. So that whenever I open notepad, are you getting
that code template? No. Second point tell me whenever you are planning to type main method when I press enter
control is coming to the beginning of the line are sleeping are you focusing please everyone focus
don't talk to your friends don't focus on your mobiles topic is very important if you don't listen tomorrow onwards you
will cry every day we are started using from today onwards every day we are using edit plus only we are not using
notepad notepad jamana over that Junior's level editor. Are you junior
now? No, you are senior. Okay. Now you come.
So you are coming for you are coming to next level. You are now Java senior student. So Java senior little bit more
advanced topics we have to use. Observe when I press enter here cursor is coming
the next line at the beginning. If you want to type a main method, you are bringing the cursor inside now and then
you started writing public static void main of main of uh string array arcs.
Observe now this is and again you are pressing the close bracket.
Shivani why you are showing your talent?
Huh? Such a mad people are there in the
market. They never want what faculty is giving. Always they want more other
current eating food. They never think they always thinking about what uh next tomorrow coming food. You enjoy current
food. First of all, tomorrow what is your food preparing by your mother? Why you asking now? Mommy, what is tomorrow?
Food is slapping right. First you eat this food.
Sugar patients are more more becoming dish.
Did I teach that I don't teach eclipse? Shivan you ready?
reply fast otherwise I'll remove you from the class.
You're wasting my time. Okay, let me remove you.
Huh? Then why you are asking question and sitting silently? If I say remove then
I'll respond.
What are you studying?
BSE first. Which year? I should ask one more
question. Which branch you are studying in BSE?
Statistics? You are not from CSE.
BSC computers are no computers.
Uh then how do you know Eclipse is there? Who told you Eclipse is there?
Seniors do one thing. Cut friendship with them
till course completed. Don't talk to them. Okay. After course completed, talk
to them. Who is your senior?
uh who is the senior to that senior and I am not your senior
and you are believing your seniors you are not believing me then why did you pay fees to me
tell me you can join your senior course now why you join to me
such a worst brains you are having always you will believe your seniors only you never believe
Then why did you join course? Okay, I'll be focus here. That's what
I'm saying. Listen, listen, listen. Don't ask any extra questions. Let me disable chat window.
Okay. Now it's good, right? Uh online students, I disable chat. You cannot
reply until I completed my explanation because daily I will do one thing. I
will join the class. Disable chat. So that you will only listen the class
don't ask extra questions because I'm giving chance to post question you are showing your talent.
Uh come on concentrate. What are the problem with notepad? As a developer I am expecting some fast development. What
are the problems we have with notepad? What are the advantage we have with advanced editors? What are the
advantages with advanced editors? Number one uh tell me now. First whenever we
are using notepad the first problem what we have code template uh now I'm going
to write the requirement typing requirement or development okay since I
can say typing requirement
uh now notepad first editor basic is what notepad tell me notepad is giving
code template no uh second observe now whenever I'm typing the code Here open
bracket after when I press enter closed bracket is coming at the beginning again I have to push this inside to maintain
proper vertical line alignment. This is called what? Alignment. The code
alignment is technically called code indentation. What is called?
Code indentation. Now tell me code indentation by default providing by the
notepad. No.
Uh, next problem. Third. Sorry, I am taking a time for typing. I typed no
problem. System dot out dot print len of system.out.t print double quotes
something I after typing my Java program carefully observe is there any color?
Everything is what? Black and white. Is black and white. Will you like that's why you are adding macup? No. For
looking good? No. For looking more good, we are adding macup. So there is no
uh syntax syntax highlighting. Syntax highlighting color. I want the
keywords in one color. Predefined class names in one color. This is string
double quotes in one color. Different color if it is there I can easily identify what I'm writing. Okay. Sorry
that problem also there. Uh next one one more problem is there after typing my program completed I want to save for
saving purpose of course I have to choose the folder I am choosing the next folder 03 what is that edit plus
uh now in edit plus I am saving the program when I'm trying to type my
program example if I present this file is saved as a Java file or text file
text file but I want to save as a Java file That means tell me auto extension
is there or not there? Not there. Uh fourth option is what? Auto do Java
extension support. Auto do Java extension support not there. That also I
only should give sir I am giving that auto extension saved. After that I want
to compile program execute program. Can I compile from this edit notepad window?
If you take C developers C language you are compiling executing from the same screen but in Java that facility not
there. All C++ developers coming to Java and telling see Java is very tough type
somewhere run somewhere. Okay. Uh then what are the meaning of it? Auto compilation
and execution is there or not there? Not there. Auto compilation execution not
there. You have to open command prompt then change the drive change directory
type java c type java. Oh my god how many commands I'm compiling. So
development compilation execution taking more time. Are you are people are understanding the problems of notepad.
Uh tell me still we have some more problem. One more problem is there. Let me let me write like this so that it's
clear for you. Uh tell me everyone listen visualize. I
develop the program here. Hi printing program. After compile execution
completed I change this high to hello went to the command prompt compile
executed. Then you'll get output hi or hello.
Hey come on answer. You will get a high or hello everyone. Hi. Hello.
Come on. Higher. Hello. Now I only you will get. Hello. Will not get. Why?
Because we have not saved. Because I have not save file. And tell me what is
the problem with notepad? There is no auto saving. Auto saving option is not
there. Okay. Uh if I use edit plus auto saving option is there. Uh next tell me
seventh but yeah
your single finger type is no. Single finger type is right. I want to
print both. Hi hello. What will you do? Will you type again that line or copy paste? Tell me how to copy paste.
Control C. Excellent. Ctrl C. Uh then Ctrl V. Uh
hey, what you said mama? This line this system.out I want to copy paste. What
you said? Ctrl C. Ctrl C. I pressed then control V pressed.
Huh? And then why you are showing your talents always you will say half off answer
start from the middle eclipse they don't want to come in a flow always they want
to learn after 50% 60% completed they wanted to learn then who will learn the first beginning 60%
uh not tell me the flow huh first select uh select not there
there is no option select select where are you select
Huh? How to select with the mouse? Select one more.
Select is the command is there on the keyboard. First you come to somewhere. My control is somewhere here. Then I
have to bring to that line. I have to bring the cursor to that line. Go home
first. Up arrow, down arrow, then home home key. You have to press then shift
end. Okay. Now then Ctrl C then
control V. If I press Ctrl V there only pasted. Uh
what to do? Go to next line. Press enter. That line gone.
H understand how many commands I am pressing then press the end key you have
to go to end of the line then enter then paste oh my god for one line copy paste
these many commands I am using then if 100 lines if you want to copy paste I'll take one day time now
so now tell me in a development I need many times copy paste then tell me here
duplicate line What we call copy paste is technically
called what? Duplicate line. Tell me can I duplicate line automatically? No. I
have to use uh lot of commands I have to use. Next everyone look at here.
Everyone look at here. Uh who are you? Single finger typist. Then while you are typing uh you are searching varies. S Y
S T E M dot O U T dot P R I N T L
Hey uh
understand a problem while typing you look at only keyboard you don't see screen what characters coming you don't
know after print typing all the complete line caps lock is coming then what to do
I want huh shortcut I mean lower case I want do you have any shortcut in the
notepad to convert them to lower case no you have to delete it type again
now what the option case change
case change option not there tell me all all these are important or not. As a
developer, daily you are working with these shortcuts required. Uh but are those shortcuts available here? No.
Sometimes uh observe sometimes I want to delete this line. How to delete this
enter line? I want to delete only one word. How to delete? If you want delete one line, I have to select and delete.
Get out. I don't want extra operations. I don't want to do uh what I should do. Delete
word and delete line option support is there
or not there? Not there. And what all these means? What? Shortcut. Shortcut for duplicate line not there. Shortcut
for change case change not there. Shortcut for delete word or delete a line not there. Okay. Next very very
very important. Inserting date and time. Many times in the program
I need to insert today date. I need to insert today time. Is that facility available? No, you have to type. And
last but not least, most danger here. I have typed many times.
Many lines I have typed. Okay. Many lines I have typed. I want remove the system.
Only system I want remove and I have to select only system. Huh. Uh, this is called about column selection. But what
is happening here? Row selection. I want only column selection. Uh, column
selection. Column selection. Facility. Is there not
there? Not like this. There are so many problems are there with the notepad. So
tell me how to overcome all these problems. Huh? Tell me
what her name I forgot. Shan ready how can we solve all this problem? Tell
me. By using edit plus
uh tell me is edit plus providing solution to all these problems. Yes.
Yes. Yes. Okay. Again I am telling you all the
students you want to buy curry rice from the
hotel or you want to prepare yourself two options are there. Option number one
buy a preparer. You should learn how to prepare. If you learn how to prepare curry, how to
prepare biryani rice and everything. If you and you are busy I can go and buy
from the hotel. Eclipse is providing full-fledged development environment.
You no need to do anything. Click button one, click button two, click button three, code will come. 100 lines of the
code by using Eclipse I can develop in 2 minutes.
Understand? 100 lines of the code using Eclipse I can develop in 2 minutes. The
2 minutes also taking time for button click only drag and drop button clicks.
If you if I teach you drag and drop button clicks when you go to interview
will give you white paper. Write a program. I am button click programmer.
What nonsense are you taking? If you give the white paper how can I give? Give me Eclipse. Eclipse. No Eclipse.
Write a program. Get out. I don't write. Understand the problem.
uh I should make you not dependent developer I should make you
independent developer I should not make you depend on Eclipse that's why first I started talking with a notepad then I
need a little bit advanced development these all with all these shortcuts for that I'm going for edit plus so finally
tell me what is a edit plus edit plus is a edit plus
uh this is the syllabus what is edit plus Why edit plus? Uh that's why it is saying what plus means what extra
features. What is edit plus? Why edit plus? When should we choose edit plus? How can we get edit plus? Create a text
file, Java file, other program files by using edit plus. Configuring compiler and JVM software in edit plus. Creating,
saving, compiling, executing a program in edit plus. Changing font and size in edit plus. Other different configuration
in edit plus. Of course, shortcuts in edit plus. First point, what is edit plus? And edit plus is a text editor
software. There are two editor softares are there. Text editor and image editor. Edit plus can I use plus for reading the
image? No, only I can read what text. Edit plus is a text editor software like
notepad. It is used for developing text files and also any other language based
programs also. Tell me using edit plus can we develop only Java program? No.
any other programming language programs, net program, HTML program, Python program, PHP program, JavaScript
program, any kind of program you can develop. Uh why should we use Edit Plus when you have already Notepad? Edit Plus
will provide different shortcut techniques to achieve fast development compared to Notepad. Tell me is Edit
Plus providing inbuilt code to you? No. Is it providing any buttons to generate the code? No. It provide only shortcuts
like duplicate, compile, execute, duplicate line, change case like you know some code syntax highlighting some
better edit plus is better than notepad. We'll get good look and feel while developing the code. Okay. Next, when
should we use edit plus? When we must use edit plus for creating and reading
text files. Edit plus is not suitable for creating and reading doc files and image files. Text files, program files.
If you want then you can use edit plus. Then tell me is edit plus by default available in your system? No. Uh what
are the problems of notepad? Those forces us to use edit plus or some other advantage advanced editor soft like
notepad++ text pad etc. When you have notepad inbuilt why extra software I have to install and use. Uh there are
several problems are there I listed out. Doesn't provide Java program default template. Doesn't provide code syntax
highlighting. Doesn't code provide code indentation. cannot add a do java extension automatically. Doesn't provide
compilation execution options. Doesn't support moving uh to source file automatically. Doesn't support autoco
compilation. Doesn't support displaying line numbers. Uh doesn't support character case change. Like there are so
many problems are there. To overcome all these problems we come to what edit plus then edit plus software is providing
solution to allo problem. So for developing sample programs as part of your learning process, it is highly
recommended to use edit plus or notepad++ or textpad. But edit plus is more better better features are there
than notepad and text pad. Looking wise, edit plus is good code looking wise and developing wise. Edit plus is better
than Notepad++ and text pad. Okay. Then is the Notepad by default available in your system? No. Then how can we get
edit plus? Download and install latest version edit plus software from the what the website editplus.org.
Uh now let us go now open browser chrome like how you install
JDK same way you install edit plus also type edit plus download.
Uh then Google will show you the website to download. Click on download.
Uh download free trial. Then tell me is Edit Plus
a free software or licensed software? Licensed software. It is a licensed
version software. You buy licensed or you must use 30-day trial version or you
can what do you do? Will you buy license? Uh no. You must use only for
30-day trial version. After 30 days completed, what to do, sir? I'll show you. One minute. I delete. No. Uh edit
plus is distributed as shareware. You can download the evaluation version and
try it for 30 days. You must find useful and decide to keep using edit plus after
uh supporting operating systems. A job. Then my dear Mac users, you
cannot use edit plus. Edit Plus will not work in Mac and Linux. Only it will work in Windows. Then for Mac users, what is
the uh editor software? Brackets. What is that? Brackets. Brackets. One
more software is that you can use that. Uh edit plus 5.7 is the latest version. Download edit plus 5.7 64bit. Click on
it. It will download. It's a bji software. Within 2 seconds, 3 seconds it
will download. Completed. Completed. Uh then after downloading what you do?
Click install. Okay. 1 minute. I want
uninstall the edit plus software available in my system. Any objection?
Objection over uninstalling. Installing both are very
simple, easy, fast, completed. It is. And now I am installing. Look at there.
Everyone watch. Accept. Yes.
One more license running.
Run one more time. Install one more. Uh, accept. Click. Yes.
Right. Come on.
A+ not installed it. Not found. Uh okay.
Now let me go to downloads page. Uh let me download again.
Uh edit plus download. Click on this. Then click on this download.
Download completed. Click on this.
Accept. Now look at here. Please. It is showing
some options. Don't do any changes. It's installing program files edit plus. Let it install. Start. Copy.
Completed installation that much fast installation complete. After installation completed on your
desktop you will see one shortcut to open edit plus understand download
install. Just 2 3 seconds work. Go to browser search for edit plus download.
Then click on the download button. Then click on the exe file. Click start and type in installation completed. After
installation completed on your desktop you'll find edit plus icon. This is the
edit plus icon. Double click on it. Uh this is the first screen will open.
Click on yes and click on okay. Don't do any changes. Whatever buttons coming
just click on yes. Yes. Yes. It is asking username and password. Will you enter? No. You have to click on try.
Okay. Now Windows 7. Windows 7 is outdated. Upgrade to
Windows 10 or 11. uh look when I click on trial version
30-day evaluation period has expired it's already remembering that installation is over in my system
already 30 days back I installed even I have reinstalled also it is remembering that I already installed then how to
work with this in your system when you click on trial button you will get this same screen small screen just click on I
agree it will glow for how many days 30 days after 30 days if you click it is asking what buyer
I don't want to buy very simple this is screen there now using mouse you can hold it right at corner you can hold and
then take it down take it down take it down take it down hide it
understood after 30 days completed what should we do open edit plus it is asking
you to buy yeah I don't want buy hide this screen you can continue using
I don't know why edit plus people forgot that okay now no need to crack no need to do
anything just hide that window it will work and now tell me I want to develop
new program then go to file like notepad it is not a editor window it is a
unediting window why it is not direct edit window notepad meant for developing text file But edit plus method for
developing only text file different types of programs. So you have to tell which type of program you want to
develop. File new normal text normal text command.
File file new. Everyone look at here. You want to develop what program? Java.
Here everyone looking at the screen.
Look at that complete code is coming or not? What I should do? Just type your
class. Watch watch watch. How much intelligent edit plus software developer
file new Java where cursor is blinking?
After class with space just you type your name class name. Example
observe.
Uh Malipali
is the same as
Malipadi. Pawan is same as Panalyan. are both the same.
uh you have common sense there you don't have common sense here
that is different software this is different software now that's why names are different notepad edit okay
come on tell me class example now look at there class example I have typed next
duty look at it complete program is ready now what are the problems first problem is what code template yes second
problem is what code indent Indentation observe code indentation maintaining or not. Third problem. Syntax highlighting.
Look at there. All classes are in blue color. Predefined class in red color.
String is in pink color. Correct my point? Next. Auto java extension. Now I
am saving this program. Save with name example
where in our folder edit plus here I'm saving. Observe I
have given only the name as what? Example, click on save
here. Magnifier. What the extension added?
Java. Did I add do Java? No. Automatically add. Clear my point. Uh
now what is the point you need to understand? Edit plus is providing several shortcut options so that our
development will be fast.
Uh next next option is what? After saving I want to compile and execute.
Tell me once you install edit plus software. If I want to compile Java
program I have to compile it here means I have to press some shortcut. Then is
the shortcut automatically will work. Look control 1 shortcut I press control.
Oh my god I got output. Abraadabra compile. Abracadabra
execute in your system will work.
In my system working in your system will it work? No you sir. Why in your system
working? Why in my system not working? In my system already I done configurations.
Are catching my point? In my system I have done already configurations. In your system configurations are not
there. If you want to compile Java program in edit plus or you want to execute Java program in edit plus you
have to do some configurations. How to do configuration? Observe. First you should go to tools.
I'll give you notes. Don't write detail notes I'll give take into your brain why you are getting notes notes
not how to remember you have to find a solution there are so many menus are
there if you want to do configurations I have to choose menu only now how many menus are here file edit view search
document project tools browser there are so many menus are there what you want to configure Java C Java tell me Java C
Java are nothing but what tools I told you Huh? So go to tools. There is a
option called configure user tool. What is the first option? Tool. Next one is what? Configure user tool. In configure
user tool. Uh by default you will have group one. I'm choosing group 19 because in group
one already configured the tools. Group 19 I'm choosing. You don't need to change here. Here I have to configure.
First step what I have to do? Add a tool. Click on program.
Which program you want to configure? Compiler. Whatever the name you are providing, that name will be visible to
you. Uh compiler. The next one is what? Command. What is the command for compiler?
Uh you know what is the command? Java C. You have to select Java C from the JDK
software install directory. How? Click on this browse button. Then go to C
drive. Go to JDK21.
Go to JDK21. In JDK 21, you select what? Bin. Inside
bin, carefully you select Javas. Complete notes. I'll give just focus on how to remember. Click on open. Then
automatically file will be open. Repeat once again. What should I do? First step uh uh tools. Uh configure user tools.
And here by default you have group one. Let it be group one. Uh then add tool.
Uh program uh type what? Compiler. Uh then
command. Command what you have to press? Browse button. Click on the browse button. Select C drive. Uh select JDK21.
Select bin. And then Java C. Select Java C. Click on open. When you click on
open, complete path is visible to you. Complete path is selected and placed.
Everyone able to see that? Uh then tell me just with the Java C can you compile
the program? No. I need the file name. The file name is called what? Argument. After Java C, what you type? File name.
The file name is called argument. Uh click on this drop-down menu. You will find options here. Choose one option.
Which option is suitable? File name. Select the file name. It will
come like this. Once again, let me do that. Uh argument. Click on this drop-down. When I click on
drop-down, we get what? File name. Click on file name. The file name is selected. Initial directory. The directory where
your file is available. File. So, what completed? Compilation completed. Can
you configure JVM now? Huh? What should I do?
Come on. Again. Add a tool. Uh program uh JVM. Any name you can give. Here I'm
giving JVM. Uh what is the command for JVM? Java. Click on the browse button.
Already you selected JDK bin folder path earlier. Now same path will be open. Carefully here. Select what? Java. Open.
Okay. Then click on argument. Uh tell me what is the argument to Java. Is it file name or class name? Class name. Observe.
Is there any class name option?
Is there any class name option there or not?
Tell me your generation people are really such a
you know peculiar people no interest on the life
okay now no seriousness on the life okay no learning approach I don't know why
you are this much careless focusless
Choose choose. What is the right option here? File name is there or not there? Not there. Uh what is the right option?
Uh file name without extension. Example on Java. If I remove exam java extension
the remaining is what class. So what should I do? I have to select what file name without extension. Uh then file
directory initial directory apply. Sir what is the pre-erun option? Do nothing
leave that empty. So tell me compiler configuration is over. JVM configuration is also over. Click on okay. Then go
back here. Now check for tools which group I have selected for your batch 20. Then go to
20 option. Uh look at their tools. Uh look at their compiler jvm. What the shortcut for
compiler? What the shortcut for JVM controlled. So
you have to do all this configuration in your system.
File name means with extension. Brother, file name means with extension. You are
understood wrong. Okay. Now look at here. After developing
this program, you want to compile. Do I require to open command prompt? No. Do I
need to change the path? No. Directly what should I do? Control 1. Look your
program is compiled. Press any key to continue means is there any error? No error. No error. Next. Control 2
executed output come. So tell me your development compilation execution is
become faster than the notepad or not. How the development is fast? Indentation
you are not maintaining how become compilation first no need to open command prompt directly you will
press control one directly execute control understood right then now look at this
point problem also solve autosaving option look I'm changing hello world to
hello look at here there is a option called what star option here star means what
saved or not saved not saved The moment when I press control 1 observe start gone
that means what? Save compile execute. When I execute what happened output will
come hello. Everyone understand? So tell me is edit
plus providing auto saving option. Auto saving option also
provided. Uh now I no need to focus on saving. Next I want a hello also I want
a hi. Then what to do? Uh go to home select copy end press enter paste. All
these gamone we are using what edit plus abraadabra
line is coming. One more time say abracadabra. Now what is the shortcut for
abracadabra? What the shortcut for magic for copying one line? Ctrl J.
What is the shortcut? Control J. Last batch one student asked me sir as you said I press control J but J is coming.
Sir tell me what he did control by control
J. What is coming? J comes array. Control is a combination
key. Combination means press control hold should not release. Then press only
J J. Control J means copy paste line. Everyone understand? Now I'm going to
write.
Okay. Compile it. Executed. Output coming. Hello. Hello. Hello. Now I'm going to write my name.
Har Krishna. Uh tell me all characters in lower case. I want to convert it to
upper case. Huh?
I have to type already type is completed. Now I want to change to upper case
upper case U. Control U lower case
control L control U. Control L. I want
only every word first letter is capital letter. Control shift U. What shortcut?
Control shift U. Control U. Control L
control shift U clear my point I don't want all characters upper case lower
case I want only this S should be upper case then place the cursor before S
control K what is the shortcut K these many
shortcut how can I remember daily practice will come okay don't
worry next coming one month we are using edit plus only daily we are using automate your mind will start remember
So tell me once again what is the compilation shortcut? Control one. Execution shortcut.
Copy line shortcut. Upper case. Lower case.
Title case. What the meaning of title case? Every word first letter is capital letter is
the title case. Uh title case. Control shift. Inverted case and one character
lower to upper upper to lower. Ctrl K. Ctrl K. Okay. And now I want to insert
date. Control D. What the shortcut? Ctrl D. I wanted to
insert long date. Control shift D. Control shift D. Not coming up.
Shift D. Um, Alt D. I forgot.
Control AltD.
I forgot is a zoom zoom option is coming there. Splitting. Which line is coming? That line is coming here.
Close. It is not edit plus option. It is
Windows option. Windows split the screen into two
screens. Now control shift
online students do you know how to solve this?
It's not magnifier. Oh magnifier law gone. Oh okay. Okay.
Okay. Thank you. So, magnify option showing differently. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Nice. Nice. Nice. So,
uh now tell me. Yes. Now I forgot the shortcut. Uh then where I can find
shortcuts? All these shortcuts are part of edit plus one in a look. Edit. In
edit option we have look insert. What is the delete date?
Ctrl D date long long long date control alt dt controll alt d but when I take
control alt d uh magnify is on that's why windows giving first option to
magnify okay uh so controll alt d now the long date coming 23rd February 2024
all these options should I remember it's up to you if you don't want to remember don't remember because as a faculty I
have to teach I'm teaching that's Edit. Edit option. You go. All the options are here. Now look at there. I want to
delete one word. Alt delete. I want to delete one line. Alt shift delete. Okay.
I want to format. Change the case here somewhere. Change case. Change case.
Not there. Convert. Yeah. Convert. Uppercase, lower case, inverted case. And capitalize case. And next. Insert.
Insert date. Long date. Time. I want to insert the time. Uh how to insert the time? Ctrl M. I want insert long time.
Control alt m not working. Windows option it is taking. Uh what is that? Uh
insert control shift m. Okay. It is what? Control shift m long time is
coming with milliseconds. So these options are necessary for you for faster development. Just a few options are
there. If you remember everything will be easy for you. So finally we concluded that case change delete word insert date
and time column selection suppose I want remove all the system to remove all
system keep cursor here alt to see what is that all to see then move the left
side left arrow how much you wanted left arrow okay left arrow down
understood delete deleted okay now I in place of system. I want to
type something else. Look at here again. Alt C and down arrow press enter
then selection will be done. Now again alt C down arrow and I want to change it
system to something called S something XY Z I want just type X Y Z everything
is changed or so this option is very important in the coming days. Okay. Now
finally what did you understand the most important at least two shortcuts you have to remember number one control +
control + 1 what is the compilation now is the compilation automatically will
now we have to configure we have to configure it is not automatic
it's not automatically will come you have to configure okay let's write configure
Next I want execute. What the shortcut? Control to execute.
Uh next I wanted to uh J. Ctrl J. What is this? Copy paste.
I can say duplicate. Uh no need to configure. Inbuilt is there. I want to change case. Control U
upper case. Next control L lower case.
Uh, next control shift + U. What is
this? Title case. Uh, next control K.
What is this? Inverted case. Uh, next.
Control D. Control Date.
Control Alt D. Control Alt D Long.
Next. Control M. Time.
Control. Shift M. Uh. Long time.
All these are control. Control. Control. Alt + D
delete word. Alt shift + D delete line.
Suppose I want to delete this word. Select it. Alt alt D. Oh, it's going
document. Uh, Alt delete. Sorry, not D. Sorry. Alt
delete. Alt delete. Check once.
Yeah. Alt delete.
Uh now suppose if you want to delete system, select this system. Alt delete.
Oh, it is deleting after. Okay.
After cursor position whatever there that is deleting. Okay. Now if you type here alt delete print ele is delete.
Okay. No need to select. I want to delete complete line. Alt shift delete. Complete line is delete. Clear my point.
Uh next. Now uh alt + c. Uh for that purpose what?
Select column plus
up or down or sorry left or right arrow
plus up or down arrow.
Uh this one column selection.
Next observe here I want to move this line from here to here. Then what is the
option here? Select cut paste. I no I don't want I want shortcut for move. Alt
shift up arrow. Alt shift down arrow. Understood. What the shortcut? Alt shift
up arrow. Alt shift down arrow. Uh now tell me alt to plus shift to plus
up or down arrow. Uh this is for
moving lines. Two up and down.
If you want two lines then select two lines. These two lines I want to move up. Alt shift up. Alt shift down. Clear.
All these are useful options or not. Are these options available in uh
edit notepad? No.
Edit plus shortcuts. So can I expect all the people are comfortable with edit plus now? Now tell
I wanted to write if condition. Observe I want write if what you do if space
automatically code is coming or not in future I want to write while loop what you write while space syntax coming or
not in future I want write uh for loop for space automatic syntax is coming I
want write try catch try space look at that try catch automatically coming
are you happy uh so it will provide lot of shortcuts for us to write the code.
This is the advantage of edit plus it is better than notepad. So from today
onwards next chapter's development we are using edit plus sir I want to
develop one more program what to do for that file new java one more file is
created uh take it as a sample save with the name what sample java now java not
required okay now be in this editor window control what compile which class
compile sample control which class compile sample Output is coming. Hello.
Hello sample. Some message I'm write. Save it. Sir, I want one more class. Oh,
okay. File new Java. Uh, now this class name is what? A. Now I'm writing here
what? Hello. A. Control 1 compile. Save it. First of all, a uh control one
compile. Compile. Uh, control executed. What output coming? Hello. Slipping.
Understand? Uh sir how can I go back to the sample java sir previous uh use mouse
use mouse correct magnifier observe each Java program is internally creating as
what one tab each class you are writing is internally created as a tab look at
that edit plus Java then edit plus example on Java look at that example open sample Java sample open a Java A
Okay, everyone following understood what I'm saying? Uh, so tell me what is the
advantage of edit plus? I can develop multiple Java files in a single window.
Then how can you move from one tab to another tab? These are called what? Tab. What the shortcut? Shortcut is control
T. What the shortcut? Ctrl T. Moving from one Java file to another Java file.
That is Ctrl T. Control T. Control T. Uh sir now I want to go forward. Ctrl T.
Control D. Example sample A. Sir I want to go to backward.
Uh control shift back. Control shift tab. Control shift tab. If
you want a forward direction control tab. If you want backward direction control shift tab. Tell me the shortcuts
here. Little little boring class today. Okay,
no problem. Now tell me control + tab. Uh for what purpose?
Moving to next program. Uh control +
shift + tab. Uh moving to
previous. So every daily daily whatever the
shortcuts I will use in the class all shortcuts I have clearly mentioned here. So it's the time you people have to
practice. Will you practice
let me share all these points to you.
What happened?
Okay, look at here please
in your system after saving your Java file
In your system you will get along with the Java files, dotclass files, you will
also get one special file called backup file. Okay, that backup file is created by
edit plus. I look at that all points are covered on that. Edit plus topic list. Table of content. Problems of notepad.
Need of advanced editor. What is an editor? Edit Plus. What is the use of
it? Advantages of Edit Plus.
Uh how to install Edit Plus. Procedure to develop a program in Edit Plus. Uh
procedure to save a program in Edit Plus. Do I need to mention extension not
required? Uh can I compile and execute program in edit plus by default? No.
Configuring compiler and JVM in edit plus. Uh next compiling and executing a
program directly in edit plus possible or not? Yes. Uh now tell me when you
compile program there is a chance we'll get compile time errors. Yes. There's a problem there is chance we'll get
runtime error. Yes. Uh how compile time errors? run timers will be shown in edit plus suppose I'm removing let me remove
this enter thing uh suppose I am removing semicolon here uh then compile time error like how old command prompt
showing error same it will show example Java error semicolon expected understand
my point uh now we have to place semicolon then problem will be solved last batch one student did one mistake
look at here all people maybe you also do that control one compile he's Doing
control 2 on the same window.
Control 1 compile. Now this is compilation window. What he is telling? Press any key to continue. But
what this student did mistake? He's pressing control for execution. Where you have to press control to on command
prompt window. Now or on edit plus uh he did mistake on what? Command prompt window. That is wrong. Okay. You
have to close this and come back to command prompt window to press control 2. Always you use enter key to close the
window. Uh next next point uh next compilation and execution
showing errors rule in developing a class with respect to edit plus. All the people tell me in first chapter we have
learned already. Suppose I am creating one more Java file. Okay. File new Java.
Here I'm taking Java file name as XY Z class name as what? XY Z I'm saving Java
file name with the name X dot Java everyone X dot Java if I compile this
program compiler software compiling with what Java file X do Java dot class file
name is generated with what name XY Z control 1 compile what the dotclass file
name generated XYZ when you press control 2 edit plus is considering the
class name or considering the file name. What is the configuration you have done
by here? What the configuration you have done here? File name for a compiler. JVM
file name without extension. That means what is the command background preparing the given command? Java. The given
command Java. File name without extension. File name is what? XYZ. Java.
Without extension, what is coming? X. Then JVM searching for X.class. Now
understand again repeating what is the configuration you have done here when I
press control2 when I press control 2 edit plus software taking your
configuration what the configuration you have in command is what java edit plus software taken java following by file
name without extension what the file name x dot java without extension is
what x now this is the command executed for your control to tell me JVM
searching for a class with what name X available or not available? Not available. Can JVM execute your
programmer? Cannot execute? Cannot execute. Control 2 you got error could not find or load main class. So tell me
what is the rule in compiling and executing Java program directly in edit
plus class name and Java file name must be same so that that class file name
will be same as a Java file name. Hence JVM will execute your program. That is the rule is it a Java ruler edit plus
ruler edit plus rule. Edit plus uh procedure to create. Okay. Rule in
developing a class with respect to edit plus Java file name and class name must be saved. Then procedure for creating
multiple Java files. What the procedure? Just file a new Java. Again file a new
Java. Edit edit plus shortcuts. I shown you stopping backup files creation.
Whenever you install edit plus backup files are created. Observe. Go to files
here. By default it will come configuration like this. When I compile this ED plus automatically
background in the folder one special file is created called
where is this file.
Let me check once again. references file create backup file apply
okay uh I have to do some change save it look at the moment when I save the
program background look at there one extra file is created this is useless
that's why in edit plus the first step tools then go to configure user tools
file uncheck this create backup file when saving you have to uncheck all
these slides also I will share okay what are all you have to do installing then what are the changes you have to do
slides also I will share you have to work out on this so this is the story about edit plus all points final
conclusion did you understand how to install Eclipse edit plus in your system
uh how to open edit plus in your system uh how to open on the desktop you'll
find this file open this then it will show you this screen 30 days you can click on I agree after 30 days hide Then
next do you understand how to create a Java file? S file uh new Java. Uh now
type here what? Something called P. Save it with what name? Just give what? P.
After after saving I want to compile. What should I type? Control one. If I press control 1 automatically compile in
your system. No you have to configure. How to configure? Tools user configure
tools and then select the add tool and then type compiler. Select the Java C
argument file name and then initial directory. Repeat for JVM also.
Okay. Then compilation is completed. So development, compilation, execution completed. You have to remember few
shortcuts. That's it. So this is the story about edit plus. Can I start using edit plus from tomorrow? Will you work?
Will you practice and come? Uh complete notes. Whatever I'm sharing today in
these two folders I want you make a notes and come
okay I will share now comments identifier keywords notes comments already notes you written identifiers
notes already written keywords notes also written list of 70 keywords you have to write that list I'm sending now
make a note and then tokens notes you have to write separators notes you have to write that's it then following by
edit plus notes also you have to write. Okay. After writing the center notes,
tomorrow we will start the new chapter. What the tomorrow chapter? Uh now logical programming to launch
base is completed. It's the time we have to start working on programs. Tomorrow we are going to start understanding how
to build a logic. To build the logic what are the different steps we have to follow and then three programming
concepts you have to learn. Data types, operators, control flow statements. That
is what next week. Tomorrow we will complete data types. Monday onwards we
are trying to understand operators and control flow statements. Mathematical based programs, pattern
based programs. How to work? We are going to learn clear. By end of next week means four months uh one month
completed. By end of next week, four weeks this is third week. Uh this is the third week. By end of next week
completed means 1 month completed four weeks I want everyone should able to write programs that is what my target
all are ready for it. uh next after end of next week completed onwards daily I
will share you assignment programs you have to work at home
understand I will continue object- oriented programming parall to object oriented programming you should started
developing programs daily assignments I'll give logical programs to develop in your batch I targeted minimum 500
logical programs we want to develop ready
By end of our core java completed if anybody ask any kind of mathematics based program you should be able to
confidently write the code. Okay. So we have lot of works for the next one and a
half I mean two and a half months. So expecting everyone to be more cautious. So most more activeness must be there
more hard work you have to do. So come to the class every day by studying given class notes so that next class will be
easy for you. Today if you postpone to tomorrow, tomorrow become more difficult.
Okay. No. Right. Thank you. That's all for today class.
General

