ript


Yeah. So what we were discussing last class
come on guys everyone what we are discussing last class language fundamentals
in last class did I teach any program
last class did I teach any program.
I didn't teach any program.
All the people are in a wrong impression that I taught a big program which not understand anything.
I got a message from one or two students saying that sir you didn't teach
operators, you didn't teach control flow statements but you teach a very big program. I didn't understand anything.
I was keep on telling yesterday mean Saturday today class is just listing out
what are the different concepts used in the program development it is not meant for learning programs don't try to
understand programs only you have to understand what are the concepts available data types operators control
flow statements that much only you just remember it and if you can understand
understand the program also otherwise leave it I told you Right?
So you are in a wrong impression, wrong thought process, change your mind. Okay? So language fundamentals and building
logic is the chapter we are trying to understand. Last class we learned these are the points quickly. Let's recolct
what we learned. First one, what is a language? What is a language?
Language is a communication media. Right? I want to talk to you. I'm using
language. You are talking to me. You are using language. A language is a communication media. Then there are two
types of languages are there. Speaking language and programming language. Speaking language or speaking languages
or communication media between uh come on human communication between
human uh programming language is the communication media between
human and computer. Uh right. What is the purpose of programming language?
Using programming language directly can I communicate to the uh communicate to the computer? No, we have to write one
program. So what is a program? A program is a set of instructions. Are
those set of instructions are you giving directly? No, we are making them as a group. First group, second group, third
group. Each program perform multiple operations. For performing one operation
we are writing set of instructions. Those set of instructions together is called what? Logic. So tell me one
program contains one logic or multiple logics. Uh one logic is meant for performing one
operation. Multiple every program contain multiple logics. So a program
suppose I take calculator program. Calculator program contains how many operations? Four five operation. For
developing that five operations how many logics we write? Five logics we will write. So one logic is meant for
performing one operation. Okay. What is the meaning of manual and automation calculation or manual and automation
operation? So that that operation we are writing logic to perform one operation.
That operation I can also do manually also I can do programmatically. What the difference between them? Manually means
you have to do you have to use your brain. You have to do calculation by your own. Okay. If I use automation,
automation means you are writing one program. So instead of you using your brain, computer use it brain. Computer
will perform that calculation. Then what are the advantages with automation? with automation. If you develop my business
operations, if you develop a project to perform one business operation, that business can run 24 by7 365 days and we
will have good relation with the customer and the operations we are performing by using project will be
fast, secure, accurate. Okay, so that we'll get fast execution. So what are
the different examples for automation? I gave you uh phone pay I gave you. Uh next uh demart payment system I give
you. So lot of examples I gave you. So every every business now in the running in the market is what with the
automation going on. Next uh what are the different activities we must perform
in a we must do in a program. In a program we will perform four activities.
What the four activities? storing data, performing validations and
calculations, controlling flow of execution and
control uh through handling errors, handling user mistakes. Uh now tell me
to perform those four activities every programming language is providing set of language fund set of concepts. Those
concepts are called what? Language fundamentals. So tell me what is a language fundamental? A Java mean a
language concept. A language concept that is used for building a logic to
perform one operation. I repeat once again. A concept that is used for
building logic to perform one operation. Uh then that concept is called what?
Language fundamental. What are the different language fundamentals available in every language? Four. What
are the four? Data types, operators, control flow statements and exception
handling statements. Uh tell me what the purpose of data types
for creating variable and object for storing value. Data type cannot store
value. Data type will create variable and object for storing value. What the purpose of operators
uh for performing operator for performing validations and calculations. Uh what the purpose of controlling flow
of execution? Uh sorry what the purpose of control flow statements?
meant for controlling flow of execution. What the meaning of controlling flow of execution?
Taking decision whether to execute or not. Okay. Next, exception handling
statements. Uh it is meant for throwing an exception
when wrong values are passed. Uh next, what the use of return keyword
for returning the result. Uh what the use of throw?
throwing exception what the use of throws reporting exception what the use of try
and catch for catching exception I asked last class I asked you just by heart the
theory of this chapter I didn't ask practice the program did I ask you type that program in your system then why you
are trying to type and why you are trying to confuse yourself I don't understand so what the statement very
important don't show your uh be focused in the class what I'm saying if you
showing your talent and confusing yourself and blaming me that is a bad idea. And next I told you clear clearly
till course completed don't talk to seniors do you remember that your senior
suggested you join in narihna class kam over don't talk to your seniors until
course completed okay if you are talking to your senior every time uh today explain this what
explain to you that is a old version mobile your seniors are old version you want to
be old version or new version Always which version has more sales in the market? New version. iPhone old versions
are you buying now? Always you're buying what? New version. A new student is a new version. New batch is a new version.
I may or may cover as ex as a previous batch. Batch to batch I will change. I
will not cover in the same way based on your capacity. I will cover every minute you are comparing with your senior's
notes. You will confuse and you will not enjoy. You are here to collect these batch notes to compare with the previous
batch. So stop talking to your seniors until I complete the course. After completing
course, you talk to your seniors so that you will have full clarity what you learn, why you learn. Okay?
Uh so yesterday class is not meant for learning programming. Yesterday class is
meant for learning for developing a program. What are the information you need? You want to travel from your
native place to Hyderabad. For that, what are the things you need to collect? That's what we collected in last class.
I need to go we need to buy a ticket. I need to for buying ticket I need to have
money. Money is there. Ticket is there. To buy the ticket I should go to bus stop or I have to go online. Bus stop
online. So we just collect the information. Understood? Now today onwards we are starting our journey. uh
starts with which chapter topic day right up
chapter number five
data types
chapter number Five. Data types comma literal
data types comma literal comma. Write down here what are you seeing?
Data types, comma, literal, comma,
type conversion, comma,
casting, casting and promotion
and promotions. data types comma literal comma type conversion comma casting and
promotions. So this is the chapter.
Okay. In this chapter the first topic we are trying to understand write on down
underline that there is the first there is a chapter complete chapter down you right data types and
data types and types of data types data types and types of data types
data types and types of data types. This is a big chapter again like introduction to Java. This chapter is again big
chapter like Java comments and tokens again this is also a big
chapter. So one chapter that contain multiple points in the first point 5.1
what is the data types and types of data types. Okay let's start understanding with the program. Tell me what is the
purpose of this chapter? What are you learning in this chapter? Come on. What are you learning in this
chapter? Shall I use can I use edit plus? Okay. So, first I am creating
folder. Always I have a habit. Every chapter I will save as a separate
folder. So that when I'm doing revision I can track what I have learned. And now we started new week. We week number
four. This is my chair.
Week number four. Huh? Now inside this week
okay I'll write that file later. Okay people are cy my chair always
look at there in language fundamentals and business logic. Did I write any program here? No it is a empty because
there is not no need to learn any program just theory purpose. Then why did you run that program that day
surrender? Just for showing the purpose that's it. Okay. And now going for fifth
chapter. Data types. I'm writing shortcut. Data types, literal, type
conversion, type casting, type promotion
in this the first topic
that is chapter heading. Stop writing. Why you wanted to see your mama?
uh I have created first folder what the first folder I created data type the
chapter heading in that I created a first folder first topic okay now here I'm going to save the programs now first
step is what open edit class what I should do this first 30 days you
can click on I agree. After 30 days, hide it.
Py new Java. Uh I'm going to develop multiple programs here. So I cannot
create all classes and Java files with the same name. And I want in an order.
Okay. So I'm taking it as test 01. All these programs are what? Test programs. Concept checking. That's why test
programs. Other faculties will call them as a demo programs. I want to call them as a test program. Demo is air test is a
high dexity. Okay. In company your team lead manager will say uh write one test program to
verify this pro this point. They don't say write a demo program. Okay. Uh test 01. What are you learning in this
program? What is a data type? Okay. What is a data type? Just we are
trying to understand need of this chapter. Simply need of this chapter. Save it with the same name. Copy. Save.
where I'm saving in our folder project folder go to FSGD and data types type on
data types save with the name test 01 now visible
okay if not visible tell I'll increase the font don't ask me to visible zoom this one okay not possible
okay listen what is the purpose of this chapter
h right in this chapter
We will learn how to sleep in the class.
Huh? Today morning 7:00 actually they forgot that they are in the classroom in the front chair. They
put their head and sleeping happily. I didn't disturb them because even if it disturb also they
don't listen. They decided in the host room there was a lot of disturbance. In the classroom no one will disturb.
That's why they're coming and sleep in the class. Let them continue. Now in this chapter we will learn creating
creating variables and objects. Creating variables and objects
for storing single value
and multiple values.
single value and multiple values. In this chapter, we will learn creating
variables and objects for storing single value and multiple values.
Small correction in this chapter we will learn different
one second data types available
in Java for please add this one on top you write here
on top of create variables and objects on the top of the line you write it
on top you have space one line gap will be there I know this mistakes also I'll do intentionally
other side I dismantled this sir uh the important points if you write separately
it will be remembered forever so mistakes also good for your health
in this chapter we will learn different data types available In Java, for what
purpose? Creating variable and objects. For what purpose? Storing single value
and multiple value. Totally learning three points in this chapter. What the first point? Different data types
available in Java. For what purpose? Second, for creating variables and
object. For what purpose? For storing single value and multiple value. So, first we are learning data type and
types of data types. Then variable and object. Then storing value, single value or multiple value. Okay. Now uh now look
at here first I'm going to write something like this. Is it a program or not? What the target of this chapter?
Storing data. In every program the first operation is storing data. I am storing
data here 10 h
store data completed. Tell me is it a valid syntax or invalid syntax?
Invalid syntax. Okay. Why invalid syntax? Suppose you went to one ice
cream shop. Okay, you went to one ice cream shop. You are asking the ice cream shop owner, can you give me ice cream?
He look at your face and ask which flavor. Okay. And next, how much price? How much
quantity? Lot of information you have to provide to the interviewer. Okay. Lot of information you have to provide to that
shop owner. Then only he can give you ice cream to your hand. Similarly in the
program I have written 10 here. Then after writing this program what are you
doing? After development completed development means what? Type and save. After type and save the program
development completed you are compiling and executing this program. Now who has to store this data in the program? You
are compiler JVM. Uh you are instructing the compiler and JVM. Array compiler
JVM. I want to store this 10 in my program. Uh how can you instruct? Open command prompt. Uh in command prompt you
are typing Java C. This Java file name right dot Java. Then compiler software
will go to this Java file where this Java file available in hard disk. Everyone watching or sleeping?
Reply along with me. Uh now tell me when you type Java C test Java file then from
your compiler software searching for this Java file in the current directory or not? It is the current directory. It
went found file then open. It will open that file. Reading first line. First
line is accessing a creating a. This first line is accessing a creating
a creating the class. Uh creating method. This is
what is this? What you are accessing?
What are you doing at this line? Number compiler come to the third line. First line meaningful you have used the
keyword called what word class revise the keywords the chapter keyword is used for telling to the compiler perform one
operation which operation create a program of what type class with what name test 01 don't worry about the text
okay only the name test 01 okay this is the valid syntax yes go inside uh now
public static void means you are asking to create a method by using void you are
telling to create a method What? What the name of the method? Main. Is it a valid syntax to create method?
Yes. First line compile. Second line compile. Then control come to third line. Third line compiler software has
seen what my dear compiler. What compiler has seen 10? Compiler look at
the 10. What should I do? What should I do with this 10? What you want to do with this 10? No. If you
compile it, compiler will throw error. Error not exception. JVM throwing is
exception. Compiler throwing is error. Compiler throw error. Sorry, not a
statement. Semicolon expected. Oh, compiler expecting one semicolon.
Now this is error. Error should remove a comment. Comment for future reference. What the
mistakes I did? I should know. So commented. I go to next line and write 10 semicolon. If I write 10 semicolon,
compiler accepts it. No. Again we are after typing again you are running this command compiler software throw error
again not a statement but it is not a statement. So what is a statement? Statement is nothing but one line that
perform one operation and tell me this is a one line. It is a statement. What of statement and not just one line sorry
statement means something that perform one operation. Okay now something that perform one operation. Class open
bracket to closed bracket. This everything is considered as a one statement sir one statement and one
line. No no no no no one statement is not one line. So it may be one line or maybe combination of multiple lines will
be there. Uh if it is a perform one operation then we call it as a statement. Tell me is it a one statement
or not? Yes. What it is performing? Class creation. Tell me is it a one statement or not up to here to here?
Yes. What it is performing? Creating one main method. Uh is it a one statement or not? Yes, it is a performing printing
message. Then what is it doing? Not doing anything. It's not performing
any operation. Then why you are writing here? Not a statement. Hey, don't sleep. Hey namaskar,
you only Why you looking back? Sir, you only sleeping. No, then we looking
who you sleeping back.
Sleeping
or not sleeping? Now then why you looking back? Said don't sleep. Very important topic. Okay. Now what topic we
are learning? Very good. Listen. Uh not a statement. What the compiler throwing
error? Not a statement. Then I should tell to compiler compiler this is a
value I want to store in this program. If you want to store you need a
uh memory tell me that student want to sit in the car what he required chair
because there is no chair he's taking my chair yes or no then I said no it's my
chair you cannot take okay my memory how can you take in the programming world if
you want to store a value what we require memory is required that memory
is technically called variable what do we call variable variable variable should have a name now
name is what identifier identifier means can be a letter or can be a word I'm
taking one letter called a equals to 10 uh now tell me is it a statement now yes
is it performing any operation yes what operation come on storing what you are storing 10
in which variable a where is a
where is Okay, you are asking 10 store in a compiler come to this line number
15. You ask your compiler, hey compiler store this 10 in the variable. Then
compile look at your face in the previous line where did you
create variable? Take this 10 rupees. Take
okay now take this 10. Okay take this 100 rupees. Where is 100
rupees? Okay. Now, so without creating, how can you say that? Store that value
in the a 10 is this is valid. Storing 10 inside a is valid. But where is a? You
didn't create the variable with the name. What? A. Then compiler throw another error. What the error? Uh
previously we got compile time error. Not a statement. Are you getting now? Not a statement. No. What the error you
are getting? Cannot find symbol variable. Listen, listen. Not completed.
Error. These three lines is error. Read all the error. Cannot find a symbol variable A where in the class test in
the class test you didn't create variable error by how can you store the value 10. Then people who attended
Python, people who know Python in academics, they will say sir in my Python I can write like that only sir
that is Python sir. This is Java. Okay. Now Python is not fully syntaxed
programming language. Everything is hiding from the developer. But Java is a fully syntaxed programming language. You
have to write everything. Now this is a compile time error. So what is the compile time error here? Semicolon
expected. First compile time here. Semicolon
expected. Uh what the compile time here? Not a statement.
Not a statement. Uh what is the compile timer here? Cannot find
cannot find symbol. Uh now tell me how can I tell to compiler how can we create variable?
First of all if you want to store value first I have to create a variable array. If you want to store water first of all
you have to buy bottle. Without bottle how can I store value? Without glass how can I store value? Without a container
how can I store water? That's why first you have to create a container. I should create a variable what a tell me you buy
glass bottle big container.
Why big container? You want to bring water to the classroom. Why you want this much container?
Are you guys understand my point? You want to store water for your entire apartment then big container required?
You want to store water only for your house four members small kettle kind of thing sufficient. You want to carry
water only for you to the classroom then one liter bottle half liter bottle sufficient or you want to drink water
one time then small half lit glass is sufficient or uh that means whenever I say memory memory what type of water you
want to store you want to store water you want to store petrol you want to store diesel you want to store blood
what you want to store based on the type of the contain I have to manufacture the container or uh So next based on how
much water you want to store based on the size also I have to take or not if just a equal to what is a type what type
of value a wanted to store huh in maths you have different type of values are
there what in maths don't write don't write in math we have number one integer
type values okay integer type values what are they
for example 10 20 30 dot dot dot previous batch I
written only 10 20 in the program I have used 40 student shouted at me hey you
told integer type value 10 20 30 40 why you are writing oh that's why I'm writing dot dot dot okay uh wonderful
people are there above next second one is what come on you know
floating or decimal but I don't want to take decimal it's a confusion floating floating point type floating point type
values, floating point type values or float type values. Uh what are they?
10.0 20.5 30.4 like this. Right. Next. Now I
I I also I have something called what?
Something called what? Character. Character type values. What the meaning of character?
Uh single code A, single code B. Can I write single code one?
S anything you write one character inside single code is what? It's a character. Number also we can write.
Okay. Single code. Uh next fourth we also have boolean. Boolean type values. Boolean
type and conditional values. Okay. Boolean type values. How many are there?
Only two are there. What are the two? True, comma, false, comma, dot dot, dot
huh dot dot dot no dot dot dot only true false only two values are there also we
have fifth one string string type values in math we also have string type values
text your name course all those things are uh in Java how can I represent string type value double quotes inside
double code can I write single character yes sir double character yes sir Uh next
can I write a number hk at the rate 1 2 3? Okay you can write anything dot dot.
So there are five different type of values are there to store these five different type of values. Uh tell me
Java must provide tell me here I should create a of what type of values to store
integer. A for storing what type of value? Double. A for storing what type
of value? Character. A for storing what type of value? Boolean. Which type of value you want to store? You have to
tell to compiler now. Uh so if you write just a equal to 10, can compiler decide
a is of integer to store 10? No. That's why I must write what? First for storing
value in a variable.
Uh what should I do? First we must
first we must create that variable by using what data type. Now tell me by
using data type based on the type of value we need to store.
Based on the type of value we need to store. Uh suppose you want to store what type of value? 10. Uh what I should
write now here end I1 equal to I want to store okay let me write in separate line
I1 equal to here what is this meaning of this I am creating a variable of what
type not in
pronounc what type I have to create with what
name I want background ground background compiler JVM software whenever compiler
come across this line JVM come across this line they will create the memory
tell memory is nothing but one box here memory means one box simply visualize
now onwards whenever you see int i will you visualize it as int I no i1 with box
this box is a what type of box int type okay then i1 next line Next line. Tell
me what the meaning of next line. Create I1 variable. Store 10 in I1 variable.
In your academics, you have created one more I da. This is wrong. One more I memory is not
created. Wherever you see assignment operator, there you are creating da d box. Okay. Should not create. If you
want to create memory, what we required data types. Did I use a data type here?
No. When there is no data type is it a creation or accessing accessing now it
will go to the previous memory in this memory the value 10 will be stored.
Everyone understand? So tell me if you want to store value in the program what I required memory required to create
that memory I should tell to compiler and JVM what type of memory you wanted
to create. For that I have to use a concept called what data type. Is it clear? Right. Write on this point.
Check. Check.
for storing
for storing a value in a program
we must allocate memory.
for allocating memory. Allocating and create but should not use the word create.
Okay. For allocating memory,
we must specify the type of memory
and type of memory and size of memory.
We must specify the type of memory and size of memory.
Else we will get compile error.
Else we'll get compile time error.
uh for example a equal to for example write only 10
or else you want to write complete program better write class test open bracket
public static void Main of string array ars open bracket
directly write it in compile time error semicolon expected
10 semicolon compile time error
not a statement. Why not a statement?
Because
just with value or you can say because a value doesn't
perform doesn't perform any operation.
It's a compile comment.
Next. A = 10.
Compile time error. Compile time error. What is the compile
time error? Cannot find symbol
variable A. Why? Because
the variable with the name a
with the name a variable is not created.
int a semicolon a= 10 semicolon.
Uh here now there is no error
here. What happened? Variable is
Yeah, please underline this A because you may feel this A is a
letter A. I mean article A. So better underline A a everywhere.
And tell me once I create variable store value can I print that value?
Yes. Write down system dot out dot print len of
a close main close class.
Tell me what happened here because of the statement in a
variable a memory created with value or without
value? Without value. Do it.
Come on. Right. Inta. The meaning is a memory is created
without value
in a a double. Uh because of next line. What is the meaning of this? Storing
value 10 in the variable A. Then here another memory. Yeah. With a memory box
created or not created. Right. And cross mark.
Many people by seeing assignment they're feeling this memory created. That is wrong. Right. And cross mark. What
happened here? The value 10 is stored inside a memory. in the previous memory
a the 10 will go and store.
Uh tell me all people understand this chapter. What the purpose of this chapter?
Creating variable for storing values. Uh tell me how can I create variable by
using data. Just writing a equal to 10 valid or not valid? not value because
variable A is not created in Java. If you want to store value in a variable, first of all, you have to create
variable. How can we create variable? By using data type. Why data type is required? Without data type, why can't
we create variable? If I use without data type, if you try to create variable, compiler software don't know
what type of value I mean what type of memory to create, what size memory to
create. Okay. Now, right. If you write int then compiler software come to know
okay int type memory should create for storing which type of value integer type
clear my point right. So first point everyone understood need of the chapter
but the first point we completed need of this chapter.
Every chapter will start understanding with what need of this chapter. Okay. Nice. We understood what the need of
this chapter. Now tell me next.
Second, with this knowledge tell me what is a data type?
Second, why data type?
What is a data type? Why data type? And tell me what is a data type? This int is a data type
int is a data type. I'm not asking what the use of data type. Data type is used for creating variable. But my question
is what is a data type? int is a data type. What is that int?
Uh int is a keyword. So tell me what is a data type? A data type is a come on
try you have to try. You should not sit silently. What is a data type? A data type is a keyword. I'm giving the clues
now. What is a data type? A data type is a keyword. Confusion. Data type is a
keyword. A keyword is a data type.
Student is a person. Person is a student. I am not a person.
Am I a student? No. But I'm not a person. Uh student is a person. A person
is a student. Person
is a student. Every person is a student. Student is a person. Data type is a
keyword means the word data type is called keyword. No. A keyword is a data
type. Is every keyword is a data type? No. No. No. Which keyword is a data type? A key.
Int is one of the examples. Okay. How many keywords are there? 51. Can you consider all 51 keywords are the data
types? No. Which keyword we consider as a data type that provides memory that is
used for creating memory. A keyword that provides information to create the
memory is called what? Data type. Are you following? So what is a data type? A
keyword that is used for creating a memor memory place I can say variable
directly. A keyword that is used for creating a variable is called what? Data
type. For example, in is a data type. Double is a data type. Car is a data
type. Why? By using these keywords, we are providing memory or we are creating memory. Now write on point. What is a
data type? Next question. after program.
A keyword or a class name. A keyword or a class
name that is used for
that is used for allocating memory. Allocating memory.
allocating memory for storing
value in a Java program is called data type in
a program don't say Java program in a program is called data type a keyword or
a class name that is used for allocating memory for storing value in a program is
called data Now why data type? A data type
is used for store for creating
for creating a variable
or an object for storing.
single value or multiple values as one group.
Every data type provides below information.
Every data type provides below information.
every data type provides below information. Number one,
type of the memory. Type the type of the memory. What the
type of memory? integer
floating point
character boolean.
Okay, you can also write string some other types also there. Write dot
dot dot dot type of the memory. Next,
range of the uh size of the memory.
size of the memory like how your bottles has a size now,
quarter size, half size, full size.
Remember different sizes are there. Huh? Uh here also we have different sizes one
by two bytes, four bytes
and eight bytes and they know dot dot dot one by two bytes four bytes and 8 bytes.
So we have four different sizes of memory. One by memory, two bytes memory,
four bytes memory, eight bytes memory. Sir, what is the bite? I don't understand. I also not understand by
heart when time comes I'll explain next also it will tell range of the okay wait also
it will tell type of the data type of the data and range of the data
can be stored in this memory
type of the data and range of the data can be stored in This memory
whichever the keyword provides
whichever the keyword provides above
information to compiler and JVM
that keyword word.
That keyword is called
data type. For example,
by short, y in
etc. or data type keywords,
public, static, vile,
etc. are not data type keywords
because those keywords
doesn't
provide memory.
Okay.
Sir, everyone understand this point? It's very very important.
now tell me now we got clarity on what is a data type and we got clarity on
what the use of data type or why data type data type is used for providing
memory information data type is used for creating memory memory by providing
memory information. What memory information? Type of memory. H uh size
of the memory, type of the data, range of the data can be stored. Okay, let me
write small program to make you understand this point. Class test zero to underscore
types of data types. In this program, we are trying to understand types of data types.
Public don't write, don't write, don't write, don't write program. Wait, I want first to prepare program then I will go
for theory string array arcs.
Uh inside main method everyone look at here I'm trying to write int i1 uh i1 is
a variable of what type then what type of data can be stored?
int type equal to true I am writing is it allowed or not allowed not allowed why compiler throw error true is what
type boolean I1 variable what type end who will tell to compiler this value
cannot be stored in this variable data type data type will tell hey you are a true type how can I store here get out
compiler comes to know true cannot be stored in the int type variable compiler
throwing error incompatible types what the compile time error boolean cannot be
converted to end. And now please try to read once again.
Data type provides information. Type of the memory. What the type of memory? In
also type of the value. Type of the data and value. What type of value? This is
boolean. Can be stored or cannot be stored. Cannot be stored. Who is telling that data type? Okay, tell me now. I'm
writing something like this. Is it allowed or not? Int i2 equal to 10.5 I'm
writing allowed or not allowed? Uh 10.5 is what type of data and a number only.
Now 10.5 is a number of data. Uh I2 is also a number of data. Integer and
number only. Now tell me number two number can be stored or not? Yes. But can 0.5 can be stored in this variable?
No. That means what is that statement? Range of the data is 10.5 is in the
range of int. No. Then compiler throw error. Observe the compile time error message. Incompatible types. Where is
incompatible? Type incompatible or range incompatible? Range possible lossy
conversion from double to int. If you store 10.5 in this int variable this 0.5
we are losing possible lossy conversion. This is what type double type. Double
type. Double type you are trying to convert to which type? Int. In that conversion there is the loss of
conversion. So compiler throwing what error? Range problem or type problem? Range problem. First what problem? Uh
boolean to boolean to into what problem? Type problem. Double2 into what problem?
Range problem. This is also compiler throw error. Possible RC conversion from double to in. Everyone understand? Uh
then tell me what the important point. Can we store any type of value to any type of variable? No. Who will tell?
Data type will tell. So data by with the help of data type compiler and JVM can decide which type of value allowed to
which type of variable. Suppose I am creating one variable here sir byte. B1
equal to B1 variable is what type? Byte. Byte is what type of data type? Integer
data type. It can store data of how many bytes of data? One bite. But I'm storing
here 500. 500 is a two bytes data. 500 if you want to store how many bytes of
memory required? Two bytes memory is in the range of by not in the range of bite not in the range. Then compiler throwing
error incompatible type possible a conversion from where to where into
byte. So who will tell the range of the value 500 not in the range of by data
type will understand my point? Uh, write down. For example,
for example,
for example, uh, tell me now. First, first you write like this. Int i1 = 500.
Allowed. Hey, 500. Int i1 equal to 500. Uh allowed because
because 500 is
an integer
and it is in the range of
data type int.
Next. Int i2 equal to true.
Not allowed because. Write down this compile error also
because true is boolean type
cannot be stored in in
because first programs are going on we don't write this much explanation. Okay.
Not in the range of int
for your clear understanding. You can place programming statements in the box.
Error. Error.
not allowed because
500 is not in the range of
bite.
You people must practice these points in your system also. You must experience these errors.
Please don't talk. Nana, please don't talk. It will be a disturbance to others, right?
Only focus on writing notes. Don't discuss
you. You try to focus on the points you feel. If this question coming in the
interview I should able to identify an answer. Okay. In the interview if I see a exam
question boolean assigned to int variable then I should choose compile time error. 10.5 in variable I should
choose compile time error. 5002 byte I should choose compile time error.
So don't talk while writing notes you visualize what you learn. Don't talk to your friends.
Bite B2 equal to I'm writing 110. Is it
allowed? Yes, allowed. No error. Why no error?
Because 110 in the range of bite. 110 is in the range of bite.
It is allowed because
110 is in the range of
bite.
Everyone placing program statements in the box. Uh it is allowed now. So what you write
create memory B2 variable memory created and inside what is stored one store.
Whenever you see variable and it is a correct memory, memory allocated and value stored
mayor, what is the current topic we are discussing?
Monica what is the difference in bite I'm teaching that is what the problem with you guys
data type already current topic is why data type
what you are writing also you don't Current topic in this program what you
are understanding why data type data type is meant for specifying type
of the variable size of the variable and
the type of the value range of the value can be stored or not these points. Okay.
Now what the range of the bite means that is the next point. Okay.
Uh everyone understand which line compiled which line not compiled? Why this line compiled? Type of the memory
int. Size of the memory four bytes 500
in the range of in. So allowed here type of the memory in true not in. So error
I2 type of the memory in 10.5 not in so error bite
variable is what type bite 500 is byte but not in the range of byte. uh B2
variable what type byte 110 is in the range of by so allow so then what is the
range of bytes sir what the range of int sir how do I know I will tell you in the next example connected topic is what why
data type so everyone reply what what the need of this chapter what are you learning in this chapter
come on what are learning in this chapter always sitting silently
huh what is the need of this chapter chapter we are learning storing data uh how to store a data by allocating
memory. In this chapter we are learning storing data by allocating memory. For that what are you learning data type and
different types of data types in complete shortcut what you're learning? So in this chapter we are learning
different data types available in Java for allocating memory to store values.
Uh repeat once again what are learning this chapter. In this chapter we are learning different data types available
in Java for storing value for creating variable and object for storing value.
Okay. So uh can I store value directly in the program? No. Uh can I write a
equal to 10 directly? No. First of all you have if you want to store value what should we do? First of all we have to
create variable. Without creating variable you cannot store value in the variable. uh how can I create variable
by using data type why I should use a data type for creating variable why
can't I write directly a equal to 10 if I write a equal to 10 how compiler software JVM software knows what type of
memory to create what size of memory to create what type of value can be stored
what range of the value can be stored how compiler JVM knows it don't know compiler and JVM will get the memory
information to store value range of the value by using what concept data type.
Then what is a data type? A data type is a a keyword or a class name. A keyword
or a class name that is used for creating variable and object memory for
storing single value and multiple value is called what? Data type. Next point,
why data type? Why can't we create variable without data type? A data type provides type of the memory, range, size
of the memory, type of the data, range of the data can be stored in this
memory. If you just write a equal to 10, how compiler knows what type of memory to create, what range of the value to
store. So that's why confused and throwing error. Suppose you wanted to buy something. You went to one shop
standing inside in in front of that cashier and say or the salesman and say I want to buy
What did you say? I want to buy. Then the salesman asked what do you want to buy? I want to buy. And what he can
understand? You went to doctor. You are not feeling well. You went to doctor. Sit in front of the doctor. I'm telling
to the doctor, doctor, I'm not feeling well. What you are not feeling well? Where you are not feeling well? Not
feeling well. Can he understand it? No. So same way if you come to the compiler and JB if you write a equal to 10 store
10 and it can store you should tell what type of value you want to store what range value you want to store you have
to tell to compiler for the data type is required everyone understand the purpose of data type now tell me in a program a
program is meant for about storing mathematical values right on continuation
Uh, next one. Fourth pointer. Types of data types.
Types of data types. Types of data types.
Java supports. Java supports.
Now tell me how many types of data types. Go back once again the first slide need
of this chapter. In this chapter we will learn different data types available in
Java for creating what? Variables and objects. Tell me how many
types of data types we have. Two types. One data type for creating variable.
Another data type are creating class sorry object. Tell me what is a data type? A data type is a class or a
keyword or class name. Only people guess a keyword is meant for creating object or variable variable. Class is meant for
creating. Wow. What a common sense you have. Wonderful. Right. Java supports two types of data types.
Number one,
primitive data types. Number one, primitive data types.
Number one, primitive data types.
Number two, don't write. Did you write there? You
tell what the second type is it a ve non
error ve non not non- primitive data types
reference data types. Oh no sir my s told non-primitive data
types next time don't meet him. He's a C++ developer. He's a C++
trainer. The trainers who taught C++ coming to Java C C++ terminology is
primitive data types and non-primitive data types. Java terminology is
referenced data types. Understood? Don't use the word non-primitive. All right.
The primitive data types here onwards primitive data types we
will write pddd write in a bracket pd. The primitive
data types are used for creating a variable for storing single value.
What is the variable? I don't understand sir. Okay. Write on sub bullet point. A variable
is a memory. What memory? Single value memory.
A variable is a single value memory. Or
one value right 50. This is variable.
The primitive data types are used for creating a variable for storing single value. Then what is a variable? What is
the definition of the variable? A variable is a single value memory. For example, one 50. This is a variable.
Write down by whatever write on the screen you write
same. Don't show your talent.
Place these two points in one box.
Uh can you tell me what is the what is the purpose of reference data types?
All right. The reference data types
in bracket RDD are used for
creating an object for storing
multiple values.
for storing multiple values
going on going on I will decrease notes also okay now because we are at basics these all terminology and program must
be habit way to you I'm dictating the notes going on I will not dictate I will upload the notes once I feel you tood
the Java vocabulary program visualization then I'll start uploading after going to home you have to fade the
notes by your own so that time will be saved more programs we can practice in the class now tell me after writing this
I have written something here uh in this word in this technology what is there variable what is a variable memory
variable is a memory but what memory object is also a memory what memory
write on an object is A
multiple values memory. An object is a multiple values memory.
What is a glass container? What is a bottle? Container.
What is a drum? Container. Then why there are three different names?
depending on the capacity right or wrong. So depending on the capacity we want different name who am I person who
are you personally but you are called as what student I'm
calling faculty why two different names because of not experience because of our
functionality based on our functionality we have different name somebody's coming and say please one student come out then
you people will go will I go no somebody come and ask please one faculty come out means I will So same way I want to store
one value memory then what the term used? I want to say multiple values memory. What the word I should use?
Object. Uh now can you draw the memory? Object means what? Multiple. How you
represent multiple
all the 10 people come here. How multiple. These 10 girls you comes this
side are last four people come here. Multiple means what you what the representation? Circle.
Group. Group means what? Circle. Multiple means what? Group. Uh multi object is a multiple values. Memory. Now
tell me what I have to write. First group. In this group I have to store
first value, second value, third value. Each value
will contains its own memory. Tell me every student has his own chair. Huh? Uh this circle is nothing but our
classroom. In that classroom chair 50 is a value chair. 60 is a value another
chair. 70 is a value another chair for each student separate chair.
This is object. Object memory structure is this
object means circle. Uh somewhere you can write object means
circle. Variable means rectangle box.
So why rectangle box? Why not square box? Okay, take square box also. No problem. Box and there may be rectangle
or square somewhere right side. Object means circle
variable means rectangle box.
Uh everyone understand up to now what I explained. Okay, give me one second.
Uh everyone please look at here what we are trying to understand data types, variables, arrays, objects. Uh in that
this is the syllabus. Okay. Now totally 18 points are there.
First point, what the need of this chapter? In this chapter we learn creating variable and object type memory
for storing single and multiple values. Okay. To perform one operation we must
store value in a program. Uh next point right. To perform one operation we must
store value in a program. Uh to store value in a program we must allocate
memory. To store value we must request JVM to allocate memory. Uh
to allocate memory. Huh? What we require
to allocate memory? Allocate memory and a variable. Now uh why data type?
Uh to allocate memory, we need to provide information to JVM about the
type of the memory and number of bytes we require to store value. Okay. Uh to
specify type of the memory, number of bytes to the compiler and JVM. How can I
talk to the compiler and JVM? We need a keyword. We must use some set of keywords. Uh
those set of keywords. Those set of keywords are collectively called as what? Data type. Hence, what are you
learning in this chapter? Hence, we can say this chapter data type is used for allocating memory for storing value in a
program by specifying the required number of bytes and memory type.
Understood? Final point. this much heavy notes you cannot write in the class that's why may I I summarized all the
points but here you have detailed explanation so finally in this chapter what are you doing you are allocating
memory by specifying the type of the memory and size of the memory okay then
next point we understood what is a what is a data type and why data type and
tell me what is a data type a keyword or a class name that is used for Creating
variable or an object for storing single and multiple values in a program is called data type. Can I call every
keyword as a data type? No. A data type keyword provides below information. What
the information? Huh? Come on. Size of the memory. Uh
next type of the memory. Next, type of the value and range of the value stored
in this memory. Some more points also we will tell that is discussed in the next chapters. Whichever the keyword provides
above information that keyword is technically called as data type. For example, uh what are the data type
keywords? Bite, short, int etc. are called what?
Data type. What are the data? What are not data type keywords?
Uh public, static, if etc. are not data type keywords because they don't specify
the type of the memory, size of the memory, type of the value, range of the value. Understood my point? Uh then next
tell me next what we understood we understood next type of the data types and their purpose and hierarchy chart.
We need to understand tell me different type of data types. Java supports two types of data types. What the two types
primitive data types and reference data types? Uh tell me what the use of primitive data type
not to store value create variable. Primitive data types are used for
creating a variable for story. One mathematical value or one one value. Uh
reference data types are used for creating an object for story. Multiple
values are objects. Clear? Uh tell me now what is a variable?
Single value memory. What is an object? Multiple values memory. Up to now all
people understand. Okay. Now tell me how many primitive data types Java supports?
Eight. How many primitive data types? Eight. How many reference data type Java
support? Eight.
How many primitive data types? Eight. How many reference data type? A. This eight I want write 2 + 6.
Answer I know math. Now uh in this chapter we are learning only two. Remaining six we are learning in the
coming chapters. Okay. So in this chapter we are learning totally 10 data types. Eight eight primitive data types
all we learn and two reference data types only we are learning. Remaining six we will learn we will not learn now.
Okay. Write on that. 8 2 + 6
What are you talking?
Girls talking and is okay. Boys also talking.
Ah, look at here.
I want to store one integer data. For storing integer data. Everyone please
answer. Integer type data I want to store. For
that we have four data types are there. by shark in long.
Okay. I want to store floating point data.
Floating point type data. Uh two data types are there. Float and
double. Next I want to store character data.
Character type data. We have only one data type care. Next I want to store
boolean type data. For that we have only one data type boolean. So for storing
integer type data four types are there. For storing floatingoint data two types
are there. For storing boolean type data we have only one type boolean. Let us understand how these are coming.
Uh Java data types are divided into how many types? Two types. What the two types?
Huh? What are you talking with him? Nothing.
What question I have asked? Nothing. Then why you in the class?
Answer. Nothing.
Huh?
friends are the most dangerous idiots in Japan. Tomorrow onwards don't sit next to the
friends. Okay? Really I'm telling you have to sit next to a unknown person so that you can
focus in the class what I am explaining. If you sit next to your friends, I cannot continue class. Tomorrow I leave
the class and left. No doubt. Tomorrow also if you are like this
irresponsible in discipline I will leave the class in the middle and leave the class. No doubt
in that when you have the patency to listen the class I will take that day
class. If you don't support me I cannot
continue the class. Like in BTech colleges if you are such a irresponsible
worst fellows I cannot do anything in the colleges you are doing this
nonsense. Now also you are trying to do the same nonsense then why did you join the course
behave like irresponsible person.
very difficult to handle these generation people
faculty I am begging you listen what kind of mindset you guys are
Huh? Everyone try to concentrate. Java data types. How many types of data types are there? What the two types?
Primitive data types. And there is something is there. What is that?
Uh primitive data types are also called base. Reference data types are also
called why I don't know. Okay. Now next next
example you will understand. Okay. Primitive data types are also called base types. Reference data types are
also called derive types. Okay. Now primitive data types are meant for
storing mathematical value in math. What the different types of values we have?
Two types numeric and non-numeric. What are the two types?
Numeric and non- numeric. So what is a numeric into float? What is nonumeric?
Care and correct care and boolean is a character a non- numeric or numeric
wrong answer it is a numeric observe single quote a is a character or not it
is a can be used as a non-numeric also can be used as a numeric 97
okay now single quote a can be represented as a 97 97 can be
represented as a single quote a you can Use a character as a character non-numeric also you can use as a
number. So tell me now the character comes under non- numeric category or numeric category numeric category. Now
under numeric we have two types of data is there integral not integer. Did you
notice integral and floating point? Integral sir integer now sir what the
meaning of integral integral means both integer and character. Both integer and
character together is called what? Integral. So tell me Java data types are basically
divided at first level word, primitive types and reference type. Second level word, numeric and non-numeric. Third
level integral, floating point and fourth level integer character. Now
totally how many types are there? Integer types are there, floating point types are there, character types are
there, non- numeric, boolean types are there. Okay. Now my question are you going to use this term this word integer
in the program? No character in the program no floating point in the program no these are the concept grouping the
data types as a one type. So bite short int long are of what type integer float
double what type floating point care what type character and boolean what type non- numeric non- numeric observe
now finally integer integer value to represent and store be four types character data to represent one type
care and floating point represent two type float and double non- numeric representing what type boolean is it
clear uh next reference data types to represent reference data types we We have other types. What are the other
types? Uh we have total I told you eight. In that eight I have represented
only two. What are the two? Array and class. Array and class.
Shankar. What is string?
What is string? String is a keyword or classer.
uh class then which come which side it will Write
on this hierarchy. Java data types hierarchy.
Java data types hierarchy.
Write
down as it is how I have written Java data types hierarchy
and is it visible or should I increase font plus last shape visible right
you must remember all these points
Totally eight types. I told you right. Reference data types we have eight types.
array class interface substract class final class enum annotation record all are that seven type that six types are
comes under class under class that's why I'm writing arrow marks to the class
did you notice here array a capital letter remaining seven are small letters
make be careful a capital letter you have to write
Everyone completed.
Now tell me character comes under numeric or non- numeric? Numeric. Character comes under numeric.
Boolean comes under non-numeric. Tell me can I assign character to integer
variables? Come on. Character is a numeric now. So
can I assign to integer variable? Yeah. Can I assign to floatingoint variable? Yes. Because there comes under what?
Numeric. Under numeric we can perform the assignment to any of these thing. Assignment means what? Story. Okay. Now
whenever you create a variable, you must specify type of the variable and size of
the variable. Suppose if I create byte B1, B1 variable is what type? Byte. That
means it is meant for storing what type of value? Integer. Because by is also represent integer number only. Now uh
next now can I store any integer number here? No. There is some range. So range
is decided based on what size. So if I create a variable with the byte as a
data type byte as a data type memory is created how many bytes of memory
created? One bite. The minimum memory allocated is what? One bite. Tell me sir
in water is measured on what? Liters. Distance is measured on what?
Kilometers. Okay. So same way the memory is measured in what format? Bite format. What the
meaning of bite? Tomorrow I will explain you. Okay. But first accepted bite means
okay that measurement for the memory. Uh tell me can you guess what is a short memory?
Size of the memory. Size of the bite is one bite. What the what the size of short? Two bytes. Uh size of in four by
size of long eight bytes. Super. It's a multiplications of two. Uh, float.
Huh? Come on, guess four by float is four bytes. Double eight bytes. Care
everyone. Uh, one by in a C language. In Java, two bytes. Okay. Now, C language
is one by Java character requires two bytes. Why? Tomorrow class. Next. Boolean
one by not specified. There is no size specified for the boolean officially. It may take one bit
or may take what? One bite. Okay. Uh now tell me I didn't ask you to write. Why are you writing? Hey did I ask you to
write? Always off brains you are using.
Follow me swami. Okay try to think uh now primitive data type size is
completed. Next what question should come to your mind? What the size of the reference type completed? Let me write
notes. When I ask you to write, write, tell me. Primitive data types are meant
for storing one value at a time or multiple values.
Primitive data types are meant for storing one value. Bite creates only one memory.
Short creates only one memory. So how many values I can store? One value. Reference data types are meant for
storing multiple values. How many are how many? one or two or 10 or 100 or
depending on our project. Tell me what the size of array and what the size of class
size of the array and class is fixed. No, size and array and class size is
varies from number of values you are storing. Suppose I'm giving you bag asking tell me what the size of this
bag. Can you say no? Depending on number of books you are putting in the bag. One book one size, two books second side,
three books another size. So array and class is nothing but your bag. Uh what is the size of this bag? Depending on
number of values you are storing. Size is depending on number of values. Right?
Write down our sizes.
One by, two bytes, four bytes, eight bytes.
completed. Okay. So now with this we completed data type and types of data types. Today
discussion is completed. Uh now I want to give you assignment. Go through Google and prepare a table on type of
the data. Size of the data type, type of the data
type, size of the data type, range of the data type, default values of the
data type. Whenever you take data type, some default values are there. Are you following? Uh in Google classroom, I
will share all these slides plus assignment slide also. I will share
after assignment down. I'm going to share two three slides for writing the notes. Continuation two three points are
there. We'll also copy and come. H so hope you understand all people understand today class. Tell me can I
write value in the program directly? Can I assign value to a variable directly?
What should I do? I must create the variable first of all. How can I create a variable? By using data type. Which
data type? Depending on the type of the value and
range of the value. Depending on the type of the value and range of the value we want to store, we have to choose the
data type. I want to store one value. Which data type? Primitive data type. I want to store
multiple values as a group reference data type. So what the tomorrow class discussion
already data is completed. What next? Eraser.
Tomorrow we are going to understand variable and object. How to create a variable? How to create object and
tomorrow by end of the class I want you develop one realtime project also ready
tomorrow class if you are not supporting me keep on talking yourself then tomorrow class I will cancel and go
understood and next why in the middle people are sitting there raking chairs
how can I come to there how can I check you are studying or not studying writing notes or not writing
notes that is my way you are aing My way you are taking my chair huh
tomorrow onwards don't take chairs whatever the arrangement we did the same arrangement you have to sit okay and
there are many empty chairs are available you have to find var is empty chair and go and sit clear my point
tomorrow onwards I need to come to your places to correct your mistakes if you do any mistake in the program clear
thank you that's all for today
Namita I'll upload to Google classroom. Go and study at Google in Google classroom.
Wait,
I didn't teach
why you want Why you want that screens? Can't you do yourself?
Don't forget. Remember try once again go to edit plus search where you have to do okay now and if you enable come with
your laptop I'll help you first you try don't depend on material always
bring your lap
package creation. I know the basic like you explain
package where Java like in class we can use for
class package creation where X classes I didn't explain it did I
explain how to create a package no explain some basic I didn't start
I'll upload. I will upload.
Pan, are you there?
Did you collect it? Reserve
share.
Share the link.
Did you receive the link?
I just shared it right.
What? No review.
Enter that code. in Google Classroom. Enter that code.
Google is Google class. No.
Yeah. After paying payment, let me know. I'll share the Google class. Admin there. Check with him. He will
join your Google class.

