ript


Yeah, last class we are trying to understand variable, array and class object. Okay, first we completed what is
a variable and we completed why variable and how can we create a variable, right?
uh first we understood working with variable. So in a project
we can store in this section we will learn storing data by using variable array object and
class object. So variable is used for storing single value and single object.
Array object for storing multiple values and multiple object. Class object meant
for storing multiple values and multiple objects. Then first we need to
understand how to work with a variable. Uh what is a variable? Variable is a
named memory location. What you have to visualize here? Assume there is a memory
with the name X. Then what the use of variable? It is used for storing single
value or single object reference. Single value or single object reference.
Okay. Next, how can we create a variable? So by using data type. Which
data type? Either primitive data type or reference data type. If you want to
store mathematical value, I should create variable by using primitive data
type. If you want to store object then I should create variable by using reference data type based on the type of
value and type of object we need to store and then we understand syntax for
creating a variable. Syntax to create variable what the first syntax data type
variable name semicolon. Uh online students write down continuation to yesterday notes data type variable name
equals to a value or object
offline students I hope you written already yesterday don't write Okay.
Uh now there is a small points you have to understand here. Here the data type can be
primitive data type or can be
reference the data type.
If you use a primitive data type, then this variable is technically called
primitive variable.
Online students please write. Offline students yesterday I have written already.
And what you are allowed to assign here one
mathematical value
one mathematical value. Next step, if I use a reference data
type for creating variable, then this variable is called
reference variable.
Uh now what you have to assign to this variable object
one object of this
reference data type one object of this reference. Which reference data type
here? Whatever reference data type you have used here that reference data type one object of this reference data type.
Check once on student same thing written. I think there is a difference here.
One object of this written same
you written only one object right? Add object
one object reference. One object reference or one object
reference of this reference data. Write down this of this reference data
of this reference data.
I request yesterday place in box online students you also place in box like this.
Uh now the question everyone answer I want to assign one mathematical value.
Can I write mathematical value 10 directly here?
Why no? Then what do you write? One mathematical value. I want SN 10.
What else I can write? Can I write one mathematical value 20 here?
Can I write one mathematical value 10.5 here? Can I write one mathematical value single quote here? Yes.
Yes. One mathematical value and one mathematical value. No confusion.
Can I write one object reference here? What is an object? Object is a memory
reference and a address. The memory address and tell me can you tell some
address on your own? And tell one address.
Can you decide your house address by your own? Who will decide? Government
will decide. Government decide the house address and giving that house address to you. You started using that address in
the first next next days of your life. Yes or no? Similarly, object means what?
House. House is nothing but in Java memory. This memory address is decided
by you or by the government. Who is the government here? Government. Government.
JVM. JVM is the government. So, JVM will decide. JVM creates the object. JVM
decide the address of that object. You cannot say but how can I talk to you as
a programmer? How can I talk to JVM? JVM, JVM, please create one object for
me and assign one memory to me. Give that memory address to me. I want to use it. How can I ask?
Come on, you know already answer last chapter, previous chapter. How can we talk to the JVM or compiler to perform
one operation? By using keyword. By using keyword. Uh by using keyword I
should ask the JVM allocate memory for me. Tell me how can we allocate memory?
I can talk to the JVM to allocate memory in two ways. Number one by using static.
Number two by using uh not non-static. New by using what? New array. You
already studied your keywords list. Now memory allocation section. Under memory
allocation section, how many keywords you learn? Two. Static keyword and new keyword. Uh static keyword and a new
keyword will allocate memory. Sir, I confused you here sir. Then what the use of data type sir? Data type is also
allocating memory. Now no data type will not allocate memory. Data type will give
information to allocate memory. Don't confuse Narid is teaching Java.
Harrishna teaching Javana. Narid providing information about the
course and the course is teaching by Har Krishna. Narid is a data type Krishna is
static keyword new keyword. Now when you write int x = 10 int data type is it
telling to the JVM allocate int type memory four bytes integer type memory
four bytes then who will allocate that memory static keyword or new keyword sir
previously I have not used static keyword or new keyword. Now sir how the memory is allocated because you created
inside the method. If you create variable inside the method JVM by default allocate memory extra
information is not required. If you create variable outside of the memory directly inside the class if you create
memory if you create variable outside of the method inside the class JVM doesn't
provide memory. JVM will provide memory only upon your request by using which
keyword static or by using which keyword new keyword. If the memory created by
using static keyword we don't call it as object. When we create memory by using new keyword we call it as object. Why we
don't call object? Why we call object with example? I will explain you. So try to answer. Now there is a confusion.
What is the difference between static new and data type? Will data type provide memory? No. Data type only
specify what type of memory to create and how many bytes of memory to create.
Then who will allocate memory? By default by JVM or with the help of
static keyword and new keyword. If you create variable inside the method you no
need to do any extra work. JVM by default allocate memory. When you create
the variable outside of the methods inside the class then you have to extra effort you have to put to allocate
memory by using which keyword? Static and new keyword. Are the people understand now? Now answer my question.
If you create referenced variable, if you create variable by using reference data type, I should assign what now?
Object. What is the object? Object is nothing but memory. Uh how can we create
the object? Can I myself can write something to create object? No. I have to request the JVM by using which
keyword? New keyword. All people understand it. Uh write down that statement.
Everyone online students understood?
Note object is created.
Declare, create both are same meaning. In English we call create, in Java we
call declare. Declare and create are synonyms.
Object is created by using new keyword
object is created by using new keyword.
Okay. So can I expect everyone understand these four points? What is a variable? Why variable? How can we
create a variable? How can we create a variable and syntax
to create a variable? Here for future purpose I'm writing one statement by
using data type either by using
more elaborated explanation. If you want
store primitive value, store mathematical value,
we must create variables by using
primitive data type. Second point, if you want to store
object, we must create variable by using
reference data type array or class.
Okay, just for future purpose. That's it. Uh, next fourth point, syntax to create.
There are two syntaxes. Number one only variable. Number two variable with value. Uh now value means I can assign
directly but object means how can I create by using new keyword. Uh some people call it as new operator. New is a
keyword and also operator. It is a object creation operator. What the third point?
Which point you want? Third point
nothing third point
okay I'll show in the program all right for fifth point below program shows
creating
Note point I didn't explain right I told any sentence explanation not given
I had to write a program to show you explanation now creating primitive variable PV PV stands
for primitive variable reference variable you cannot understand okay below program shows creating primitive
variable to store to store different type of
values.
Rest 04
variable and tell me I want to create a variable to store integer value. What line I have
to write? int i1 equals to
int i1 equals to some value. What value is say? 10.
Uh create one variable to store floating point number.
float f_sub_1 equal to 10.5. Is it compiled?
Is it compiled? No. 10.5 is what type? Double type. Can you assign to the float
variable? No. Compiler throw error. Incompatible types. Possible loss of
conversion from double to float. 10.5 is what type double. It is a compile time
error. Writing a watching right along with me.
N points only now. ICT compile time error.
Okay. You can take out compile time like PLC possible lossy conversion
from double to float.
uh if you want assign to float what I should write float f_sub_2 = 10.5
f small f or capital f you can write
then what The right way to assign without double D1 = 10.5 all order. Yes.
Next. Can you write one statement to assign character? What do you write? Care ch1 equal to
uh single code single code. Uh say a
Uh, is it allowed? Care. CH2 equal to 98.
No. No. Allowed or not allowed. Everyone should answer. Don't sit silently. Allowed or
not allowed? Not allowed. Because you are showing your talent.
It is not allowed because you are showing your talent. You are using your own algorithm. JVM algorithm is
different. Your algorithm is different. Uh what is the range of car data type
0 to 35 65,535?
Is 98 in the range or not? Then what is your problem?
If you want to represent 98 as a single code character, then character required.
You want to represent 98 as a character. No, you want to store 98 in the car
variable. What is this storing? It's not representing. I don't want to represent 98 as a character. If you want
represent 98 as a character, then you have to write what single code. Understood? What am I do? What I want
here? 98 I want to store in the character. Allowed or not allowed? Allowed. Uh here a is a character want
to store in the character allowed. Yes. If I write a directly here is it a
character? It is a identifier. Excellent. Wonderful. What is a identifier? You want to use a as a
identifier? As a character as a character. So you should write in single code for representing a as a sing as a
character we placed in single code. Then later I want to store in character variable. So assign to the character
variable. Everyone understand that? Don't confuse by representing by storing. Uh here you want 98 as a
character. No, I want 98 as a integer number. Can I store inside a character?
Yes. Compile. Now what is stored inside the
ch variable? Is 98 stored? No. It is what type of variable? Then what? It can
store number or character. Character. So here 98 is converted to single code B.
What is single code B? Ask character. A car variable can store only character.
When we assign a number to the character variable background compiler software
converts that number to its equivalent ASI character.
Okay. Now convert to ASKI character. Now tell me now what is the ASKI character table?
Single quote A 97 single quote B 98.
Next like that Jed up to Jed you have to remember. Next single quote capital A
single quote capital A 65 65 single quote capital B 67 sorry 66
like that up to Jed. Okay. Next single code one. Okay. Single code zero. Start
from zero. I can also represent number as a character by placing inside single
quote. Its ASKI number is 48. Single quote one. Its ASKI number is 49.
Understood? Uh so you have to remember this table
side you can write.
So can I assign number to the car variable? Yes. Any number up to the
range of car up to the range of car data type. You cannot assign whatever number you wish.
in box
you must remember it if you don't remember you will miss exam bits
I'm going to give many questions on these concepts Okay. Coming classes you have to answer many questions.
Uh completed
program not written. Okay.
We can assign number to the care variable internally that number matching
character will be stored. 98 assign 98 matching character is single code B. So
single code B is stored. Uh suppose if I write 49 what will be
stored? One. Suppose if I write 66 what will be stored?
which B capital B will be stored. Okay, let's proceed. Next point, I want to
store true or false. What I should write? Uh create create boolean B1 equal
to true. Boolean B2 equal to false.
Tell me like in Java sorry like in C and C++ in Java can I write boolean B3 equal
to 1 boolean B4 equal to zero.
Possible or not possible? Not possible. Compiler will throw error. Incompatible
type int cannot be converted to boolean. Int cannot be converted to boolean. Int
cannot be converted to boolean. Write on that and side you write comment.
Compile time error. ICT. ICT means incompatible types.
Incompatible types.
Like in C, C++ languages.
In Java, we cannot assign
integers to boolean variable.
Integers to boolean variable. Uh, print all variables.
Can you please add one more line? Completed up to here.
Up to here. Everyone completed?
Can you please come back here? You're written in I equal to 10. Now side you
have space. Now side side
here. Here you have space. Now in the space you write
I am writing down long L1 = 50. Allowed.
Come on. Long L1 equal 50. Allow allowed. 50 is what? Integer long is
meant for storing integer is 50 in the range of long. Yes.
Allowed. Okay.
Here 50. What type? Integer.
Integer can be stored in long. Yes. Again repeating integer is a Java.
Is it a English word? Mass. Mass in Java. What is integer?
In Java, integer is what type value? int. For representing integer, we have
how many types? Bite, short, int, long. We have four types are
there. I can store integer number in all these four data types variables. Emma
Confusion master for storing integer number I can use any
of these four data types. Okay. Now bite B1= 10 allowed. Short S1= 10 allowed.
Int i1 equal to 10 allowed. Long L1 equal to 10 allowed. A integer number I
can store inside Java program by using any of these four data types. Point is
clearer. Second point, whenever we have 10 people coming to talk to one person,
can you talk to all the 10 people? No. To represent all these 10 people decision, one captain will be there.
Now, one later one boss will be there, right? Who is the boss of all these four data types? Int.
Who is the boss? In what is the default data type of integers? 10. Int 10 is a
integer of what type? 50 is a integer of what type
don't show your talent. Huh? It is not social media. Hello. It is not social media to think
as you like. This is Java media. You are to think based on the statement I am giving. Okay. Now in the program
somewhere I have written 10 compiler read this 10 or no
when you write a program and you give this program to the compiler compiler read this 10 compiler read this 10 as a
number of what type in Java everything should have a type. Okay. Now variable
also should have type value also should have type. 10 is a number of what type?
Java Java in mass it is integer in Java
in okay now I'm writing here 20
in 30 40
Why did you change your decision? Why you change your point to long? Did I
say? Did I say large integer is long? Then
why you are using your own brain? Namaskar. Once again tell me 10 is what
type 20 what type? Why is it a short integer?
There is no short integer or long integer in Java. Okay. Integer. 10 is a integer. So 20 is a integer. So
30 is integer. So 40 is integer. So this large number is a integer.
So it is a inte. Okay. Now
repeat again. Any integer number is a
in type. Repeat again. Any
It may be one-digit number, twodigit number, three-digit number, large digit
number. Compiler consider that number as a in type point is registered in your
mind. Stop using your thanks.
Don't use your brain. Okay. Now, second point I am adding. Ready?
Writing notes. Don't write. Write in your brain. Inter
will ask a question. 40,000 is what? One second sir. 40,000 is integer sir. Huh? Will you
follow the notes or will you follow your brain? Brainer don't write notes. Notes
I will take care. Take care your brain first of all. Okay. Writing notes is wrong way of learning. Understand and
store in your brain. Applying is right way of learning. Now repeat once again. Every integer is
of int type. Whenever I say integer in the program, I have to pronounce it as
in point is clear. Next question I'm asking. Every integer is a in okay but there is
a range. Now every water can be stored in a bottle. But there is a range to the bottle. Now
I'm giving you I I'm asking you this water can you store in bottle? Yes, this water can I store in bottle? Yes, this
much water can I store in bottle? Yes, conditions apply. What do you say? This
is allowed. But how much that bottle range exceeding the range? Can I store
or cannot store? Cannot store. Then I should explicitly say 10 lit
water can store in one liter bottle. No. uh where I can store 10 liter bottle
sorry 10 liter water in 10 liter bottle understand my point when I am taking water I said only water
then you are seeing what this water is a water type bottle type in the range or
not also you are checking or no tell me now 10 is a of what type in in the range
of int 20 is a in the range of int 30 is a in
In the range of in. Yes. 40 is a in the range of in. Yes. What is this number? One. Totally
how many digits are there? Count. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10.
11. Look it is a integer or not of type in or not. But in the range of int.
Accepted or not accepted? Not accepted. It is not accepted because of
range exceeding the range of in exceeding the range of in as long as
that number not exceeding the range of in should I suffix not required or not
required. Are you catching my point? If it is exceeding the range of int and
10digit number exceeding then I should write with what? L observe. Now I hope
you got point. Knight, will you show your talent again? Don't show your talent. Huh? Tell me. Can I use a bite
data type store integer? Up to what range?
Minus 128 to 127. Can I store integer in the short variable? Yes. Up to what
range? - 32,768 to + 32,767.
Can I store integer in the in variable? Yes. Can I store long Can I store
integer in the long variable? Yes. Should I suffix L? To store integer
number in the long variable, should I suffix with L? No. As long as the
integer number in the range of int, no need to suffix with L. If it is exceeding the range of int, then suffix
with L. Observe. Observe. Now apply the thought here and tell me int i1 equal to
10 elder how to understand it right to left 10 is
a huh come on integer of what type in in
the range of in yes can be stored in in yes how many questions you have to ask
totally here number one type number two range number three can store or not so
totally how many questions you have to Ask three questions. First 10. Okay. First you have to ask value type. Second
we should ask value range. Third question can store in the variable or not. Tell me first. What is the value
type? In. Is it in the range of in? Yes. Can be stored in in? Yes. Tell me. 50.
Don't use your brain again. Huh? 50 is what type? In. In the range of in. Yes.
Can we store it in long? Yeah. Should I use L? Not required. Not required. When L
exceeding the range of whom? Long range in range. In range. If it is exceeding
the range of in range, then I have to use what? L. Now tell me now five
L to 5,000. L required not required. Why?
In the range of Y. Everyone answering. Uh, next. L3 equal to
count. Count how many digits are there? Count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 digits in the
range of int. Should I use not required? Not required. Control one comp.
Not required. In the range of int.
As long as you don't use your brain understand if you use your brain
more not many times one time.
Now I am adding L4 more two digits.
Come on. Come on. Uh tell me five. How many digits are there? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. 10 digits.
10 digits. Start with two. Now this is starts with what? Five. It is a integer
of what type? Of what type?
In not long. Integer by default. What type?
In type is it in the range of int? No. Then
compiler throw error integer number.
Integer number too large. Here the problem storing the number itself.
The number itself is a problem. By default you are
student that is the problem. Okay student means you are using your
brain. Don't use your brain. Use a Java brain. What is the statement I gave? Every integer is of what type.
Then check is it a in the range of in? No. Choose the error to whom you assign.
Don't consider consider only two points. What is the type in in the range of in?
No. Choose error. Yes. Then think about to whom I have assigned. Third step is
always what? Storing. First step is time. Second step is range. Third step
is storing. Storing don't consider first consider time. What type in in the range
of in? No. Wrong.
How to solve this error? Compiler throwing error because not in the range of in. Now I should tell to compiler
compiler this number consider as long.
How to write now? Long L5 = 5 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 L. Uh if I write L tell me it is what
number? Integer. Ma'am. It is what number?
Integer of what type?
I ass
people you are read once again. If I don't write L
if you don't take Java admission who are you student after taking admission Java
student such a confusing point I repeat once again if I suffix with L it is what type
if I if I suffix with L what type long if I don't suffix with L what type in
type everyone understand Ready to talk now? Really? Let's see now.
10 20 30
10 L 20 L 40 L. Super.
type longer in type. Are you following my point? It is a in type but
not in the in range. So error. Can I use this number in the program directly? No.
Can I use this number directly? This number? This number? Yes. But this number? No. Because it is exceeding the
range of No.
Huh?
Okay, everyone got clarity? Now tell
how many operations are you doing here? First, what type?
Second. Third.
Enter in the range of int 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10.
10. Okay. Not now. Not in the range. So,
error. Error is because of first problem, first pointer, second pointer, third pointer.
Error you are getting because of first typo problem. No range problem.
Yes. Ready?
Definitely give wrong answer. Ready? Wrong answer. Compulsory.
Compiler not compiled.
Compiler not compiled. Okay. Tell me how many people not compile. Raise your hands. Not compiled.
Why are you seeing other person hand raise or not raise? You take your decision in the interview room. No other. Hey, what is your answer? No.
Huh? You tell. Come on. Rise up full hand, not half. Huh? Okay. How many people compiled?
Excellent. Still people are using your brain only
when you stop using your brain. Raama
I said don't use your brain still you are using your brain.
First point is what type? What type
is it in the range of in Why are you jumping from second point to third point?
It can be stored in long. Can be stored. But third step I didn't come yet. You
are in the first floor. I'm asking third floor you are jumping. Are you in the third floor? You are in first floor
only. Not come to the third floor. No. Are you guys understand? Three points you have to apply. Yeah. First point is
what type? What type? Second is what you have to apply. Is it
in the range of in compiler not compiled and tell me how many people say compile
now? Stop using your brain run.
No, it is compile time error. What the
compile time error? Range problem.
Okay. The number number range problem. Okay. Uh here what is the problem?
Same number range problem. I can say number
not in the int range. Here also number is not in the int
range. Uh tell me how can we solve this problem
to tell it is not in type long type by writing L is it considered as in longer
long now compile
Babu people who raise your hand compiled all people correct your mistake again I'm asking question in I1=
1 Compiler not compiled.
How many people compiled? One off hand.
Compile. How many people compiled? 1 2 3 4 5 Okay, compile.
Same question again. You are such a confusion brain not
listening properly. Same question. Left hand, right hand. Okay.
Uh how many people not compiled? Okay. Nice. Why not compile?
Uh first you have to ask what type it is a number of what type? Long time. Second
range. Is this number in the range of long?
one L not in the range of longer then in whose range
in whose range this number is available Babu
that's why I told you by God that range table right uh every integer
suffixed with L is in the range of long every integer suffix with L in the range
of Huh? Uhhuh. Now this one L is a what type? Long. Is it in the range of int?
is a long inial there not there then can it store or cannot store cannot
store such a simple point your unnecessary extra thinking and confusing
in range 1 2 3
4 dot dot dot 100 dot dot dot 200 dot dot dot 300 like this okay uh now what
is The long range long range is same 1 R
1 L 2 R 2 L 3 R 3 L 4 R 4 L 100 R 100 L
understood every integer I can use as a integer or suffix with L. If I use as
integer it is a what type in suffix with L? Long. If you suffix with L, is that L in
the range of int? No. Can I assign that L to the int variable? No. Then here
which is the problem? Type problem. Range problem. Storing problem. Storing
problem. Can you store long value in the int variable? No. Compiler throw error.
Everyone understand? Now tell me now. Who is the least range? Lesser range
data type. Byte. Byte is the lesser range. One bite range
minus 128 to 127. Next two by who is the next range? Sure. Short to next range.
Next range is what? Int. Int to next range long. And tell me can I store byte
type value in the short type variable? Yes. Short type value in the int type
variable. Yes. Int type value in the long type variable. Yes. So bite short
and int type values can be stored in long. Next now I'm taking care.
I'm taking care. Tell me now to whom I can assign care variable
care value to whom I can assign? Can I assign car to bite? No. Why
car range what my 0 to 65,535 is it in the range of by no in the range
of short? No. In the range of in yes so tell me can I assign
uh can I assign car to in? Yes. Carrot to long? Yes. So this conversion ranges
table if you cannot remember that ranges table at least this shortcut you remember okay
if you don't remember this also you will fail in the interview repeat once again bite can be stored in short can be
stored in int can be stored in long uh tell me now is 10 in the range of bite
yes can be stored in bite yes uh 10 in the range of short can be stored in
short yes Is it 10 in the range of int? Yes. Can we store it in int? Yes. Is it
10 in the range of long? Can we store it in long? Uh is 10 in the range of care?
Yes sir. Can we store it in care? Yes, it is converted to ASKI characters. Is
converted to ASKI character and stored. Next question I'm asking 10 L in the range of bite.
10 L in the range of short. 10 L in the range of in
10 L in the range of long. Yes. Okay. If you suffix with L then that
number is considered as what type long type can be stored only in long. Clear
paka I'll give this table later not now but you remember notes I don't give now I want you remember this table. Can you
okay? Then finally come back here. Uh now long 50 50 is what type in can be
stored in long? Yes. 5,000 is in the range of in yes. Can we store it in
long? Yes. Uh 50 this five lakhs or whatever is this number in the range of int? Yes. Can we store it in long? Yes.
This this number in the range of int? No. Not in the range of in. So compile time
error. And tell me now if you suffix with L now it is considered as inter long type
consider as long type can be stored in long
understand here the problem is assignment problem or the number itself
is the problem number itself is the problem clear one more time I want to check your knowledge
ready now I'm writing system outp print len I'm writing 10 here what I am asking
the compiler to print 10 compiler reading 10 as a by in shorter longer in
in 10 is a in the range of int yes number is valid can be printed on the
console yes control one compile successfully compile control 2 executed
I'm printing what is the output 10 could not find a variable we calculated
they taken smaller okay Control 1 compile control 2 executed
output is 10 everyone tell me now I am writing here I'm writing here 10 uh L
any error come on no uh here compiler consider 10 L as what type
long will be printed yes control one but on the console 10 L will come 10 will come 10 will come
understood paka yes no next question I'm asking I am trying to print one large number.
Okay, let me make it understand. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0. Uh compiler not compile. It
is a 10digit number. Now starts with one of what type? Integer in the range of
in compiler. Yes. Printed. Yes. Any error? No. Now I'm adding one more digit
one. Huh? Here problem is number itself. Number
itself is out of range of in. So we got compile time error. What the solution to this problem
suffix with L? Tell me is it
is it is it
both are looking same. No that's why recommended is capital. You can use either small L or capital L. No problem.
Both are accepted. But recommended is what? Capital L. Now what is printed on the console? Is L printed or only number
printed? So finally try to answer. Now is it
mandatory that integer number suffix with L to store in the long variable? No. When the integer number exceeding
the range of in then we have to suffix with Yeah. Is it clear?
uh write on these SOPs continuation to the program.
Okay, I will rewrite these statements one more time down. Let it be there.
Here you write.
Right on. Right on.
The point important okay from the interview point of view this is very very important so please work out at
home and register this point in your brain and do R&D on your system
prepare one program and type that don't type what happened just try to explore
Simple point okay but little confusion point for the beginner and also try to
ask this point in your hostel so that they will also confuse you have you have
a chance to explain when you explain you never forget when you don't explain you
will forget so always explain the points to your hostile friends knowledge grows
when you share you are in exam haller
are you in exam haller Then why neatly letter by letter writing write fast
don't maintain super neat notes
connected Hey, first
once.
Right.
Next.
letter.
Post writing is also very important. Uh down right
continuation right. Int i1 = 10 allowed. Long l1 = 10 is also allowed. Int i2 = 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Here assignment
problem number problem. What the compile time error? Integer number
two large. Integer number two large.
Uh can I assign to long variable L2 equal to uh compile time error solved
or not solved? Not solved. Still we will get compile time error. Why? Because
number is not suffix with
L. Number is not suffix with small L or
capital.
Chala chala. Important point. Okay. This is very very important point.
Now int i2 I3 equal to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
0 1 L compiler not compiled. Uh here
number problem storing problem. Compile number possible loss conversion
long cannot be converted to
long to int.
Previously the number problem. Now number is okay.
Long L3 equal to no error. No error. No error. No compile time error. Number is
long can be stored in long.
Please ask these points to your friends.
Uh which line is error and tell the reason
first line is error reason 10 L is not in the range of in number
problem storing problem. storing P right compile time error
compile time error possible RC conversion long to int
storing problem
So tell me what is a variable? A variable is a named memory location. It is used for storing one mathematical
value or one object. If you want to store one mathematical value, we must
create variable based on the type of the value we wanted to store. Repeating
again. If you want to store one mathematical value, we must create variable by using primitive data type by
short in long float double car boolean based on the type of the value we want
to store as shown in the above program. Is it clear all right? So write the
conclusion point for storing.
Everyone completed a program Right.
program any doubts confusion if you have any confusion in this
program or any doubts you please ask so next program is difficult if you don't
understand this program online students
you have any doubts in this program please First off,
three points. Four points
floating point.
Totally there are four points. How to store integer number? How to store floating point number? How to store
character and care variable? Assign the number and number four boolean. First
integer. There are two types of inteious. Regular integers, large integers. Regular integers I can
directly write as integer number or suffix with L. Large integers we should
write only suffix with L. If you write large integer number directly in the program, compiler throw
error. You must write with suffix with L. Either normal integer or large integer suffix with L. It is in the
range of long. You can assign only to the long variable. Okay. Now large integer number you cannot assign to int
or you cannot print compiler throw error. That is a point number one. Point number two floating point number either
it is a small number or large number by default it is what type double type you can assign only to double. If you want
to assign to the float compulsory you have to use what small f or capital that is the second point. Third point
character. If you want to represent a letter, a digit or a special character.
If you want to represent a letter or a digit or a special character as a character, you should write inside
single code. If you write letter directly without single code, it is
considered as a variable compiler throw error. If you write special character directly, compiler throw error. If you
write digit directly compile time error, no compile time error. No compile time error. It is
considered as a integer number. Okay. Next, if you want to assign a letter to
a care variable, I should write in single equal. If you want to assign a
special character to a car variable, you should assign it should write in single equal. If you wanted to assign a digit
to a car variable either you can assign directly or in single code. If you
assign directly that number representing character will be stored. 97 if you
assign single code A is stored. 98 if you assign single code B is stored.
Understand? If you write single code one one directly stored. If you write singly
code two two directly stored. Can I write singly code 97? No. Because in
single code how many letters are allowed only one 97 if write in single code compiler throw error that the second
point of care. Third point boolean when you create boolean variable you can
store only boolean value true and false. Only true and false are the boolean range values. You cannot write one as a
true zero as a false. One is a integer zero is a integer. If you try compiler
will throw error. This is the first fundamental point on primitive data types and the variables story. Everyone
comfortable? Four points. Can you remember now? Right. All four points are represented there. Notes part of all
these points in detail. I will upload. Can you make a notes? Okay. Or else you can read the notes
also. Okay. I will upload now material uh complete chapter I will upload. In
that chapter all points are detailed there. You can read clear my point or else I'll do one thing separate slides
I'll upload each point slides I'll upload you have to read the slides or write the notes your wish now let me go
to the next question all ready here uh moving to the next program very interesting program
S05 problem of primitive variable able or
problem of variable I don't say primitive variable problem of variable what the problem of variable
a variable right up continuation problem of variable heading
problem of a variable a variable can store only one value or
one object object at a time
in one chair only one person can sit. If you try to sit second person possible or not possible not I want second person
then first person should come out right a variable can store only one value or
one object at a time. If we try to store,
if you try to store new value or new object,
now what happen? The existing
value or object is replaced with new
value or new object replaced with new value or new object.
Okay, let me show you program. Don't write after writing this the three point.
Don't look into notes like everyone I'm telling while writing notes
once you start the line just keep look at the screen and write don't look into
notes when you want to go to the next line then only look into the notes again
understand learn how to write notes also fast writing you never copy from other person
paper that is a problem with you. Okay. Learn how to copy from others also.
Okay. When I'm typing only look at the screen and copy. Don't look into your notes. Sorry, it will go down. Let it
go. First line, second line, third line, it will go. You will learn how to write in a single line. Okay. Straight line. Uh then now observe I'm creating one
variable. Currently I'm working with the primitive variable. Later we'll work with reference variable. Int i1. Uh tell
me is this whenever write int i1 are you able to visualize the memory da? I1
variable created with da inside any value no value no value down I am
writing the value I1 equal to five allowed or not allowed what points you
applied how did you say allowed some algorithm I have to apply now who are you compiler
first compiler reading five five is what type in int the range of int is a five
is of type int is it in the range of int yes can be stored in in v variable
Yes. So compile error. No compile error. No compile error. Compile. Compile. Compile. Compile. I save it first time.
Okay. Test 05. Let me not show my talent.
Copy. Paste. Uh control one. No compile time error.
Compile successfully. Now what JBM is doing? JBM storing the five in this
variable I1. Another memory box created. Store in the same variable.
Five will go into I1. Five is stored here. Okay. Then next uh
I don't want to take I I want to take it as X.
Uh next point I'm right. I want read and print that X value first
first value. Okay. Value or you can say initial value.
plus x. Hope you don't confuse with plus. Uh now what is the output will be printed on the console?
Uh initial value x control one
control or initial value five. My question is is this x value reading from
previous line or from memoria? Not from the previous line. This is not
reading line. This is what story. Your father bought sweets from the shop
and placed in your house for reading the sweets. Are you going to shop? No. You
are going to the house where the duba is available now. Uh this line is not meant
for reading in your academics. You look above for the value. Stop it. You look
for the memory to read the value. Understand? Uh so tell me for reading this x it is going there. What value
available? Five. That five is printed. Any doubts? Now next line I am right.
Tell me can I write x = 7? What the meaning of x= to 7? Another
memory created. Same memory accessed. Same memory accessed. Red color danger.
Same memory accessed. Seven is storing inside same memory. What the value
coming? Seven. Both five and six sit. Both five and seven sit together. No.
Five replaced with seven. A variable meant for storing only one value. If you
try to store new value, existing value will be fak. Uh then now I am printing that value
again. How to copy paste? How to copy paste? Control J. How to
move this line to the next line?
What? Alt shift to down arrow. Alt shift to down arrow. Tell me by the time here
this X is reading what is the value available in X? Seven. Seven reading and
print. So what is the point I'm trying to prove? Problem of the variable compile
execute. Okay, a variable can contain only one
value. If you try to assign the new value, existing value replace with new value. Hope you all understand. Write
down this program
as it is with the diagrams. First write a program.
Every program we are learning here should type in your system. Okay.
completed. Uh try to draw memory by your own. Don't copy from here. Intex means X
memory created with four bytes. X data type size is four bytes. Then five is
stored in the X memory. reading X from the memory.
Don't copy. Try to write your own. If you copy, you'll become copy master.
completed.
Huh? Close main method. Close class.
Close main method. Close class. Now tell me many times in the project I
need to store multiple values or not. Uh tell me help me. Next point test 06
storing multiple don't write values. Uh tell me how can we store
multiple values in the program. Many times in the project I need to store multiple values. For example, all
you students as a student number in my program I have to store first student, second student, third student, all 500
students numbers. I have to store all 500 students mobile numbers. I have to store all 500 students names I have to
store course details I have to store address I have to store how can I store
if I create one variable how many students student number I can store one student I want to store all students
numbers then what should I do no wrong answer come on int i1 it can
store how many values one values I want to store one more value what should I
One chair is there. How many students can can say one? I want second student also command available in the classroom.
What to do? Provide second chair, third chair, fourth chair. As many values you
wanted to store those many variables I have to create. Int i1= to 5, int i2= 6,
int i3= 7, int i4=
8. Everyone understand? Uh tell me how can we store multiple values? By creating
multiple variables. For each value create separate variable then read and
display that value. What are I1 + I1 I2
+ I2 I3 + I3 I4 + I4
I2 I3 I4 I5. Save it. Uh sorry I 1 2 3 4
and say save it and now go to command prompt. Now I want to use command prompt for your better understanding.
Open command prompt D drive full style Java
variable. Open command. Clear screen. Type Java C test compile.
Compile successfully. Java test executed successfully four values I
got. Understood? Yeah. So if you want to store multiple values
create multiple variables. Okay. Now how many students are there in the class?
500. How many variables I have to create? 500. Nice. Tomorrow one more
student coming. What to do? 5001.
Can I run this class directly to store that 501 student?
Come on. Already I developed this program. This is a project already
developed this project. I gave to Narit and told Nar Naresi. Now enjoy store the
student numbers. Then first student student fourth student fifth student how many students? 500. Now 5001 student
coming is my program supporting 501 student. Uh what Narish ID has to do now? Open
the source code. Open the source code.
Uh uh create a new variable here. I5
value 9. And create one more SOP I5 I5. That means what is the problem in
this program? Can I create variables dynamically? No. Dynamically means on
demand. While running the program on demand, I want to create variables. When
I am planning to run the program here, I am planning to run the program. My program whenever I press enter, my
program should ask how many values you want to store three. Then how many variables should create background?
Three variables. Then store three values. Perform operation. Close. Uh again second time I am executing. Second
time I am executing my program again prompt a message. How many values you want to store? 10. Then how many
variables should create? 10 variables. Then tell me whenever you want to store multiple values. I should create program
with multiple variables. Then what is the problem in multiple variables? This
program become on this program become static nature
program. What program? Static nature program. Lengthy is not a problem. Yeah.
Uh it become static nature pro program. Why static nature? Every time when you
want to add a new variable to store new value. Whenever I want to store new value, I have to modify the code by
adding new variable. Again I have to compile. as a developer I can do but as
a customer cannot do. So the program should be dynamic enough to take to
create the variables at the time of program execution. Then how to solve this problem? This problem can be solved
by using by using the next topic. What the next topic? Array.
What the topic? Array. Uh so tell me now test 07
array. Now I want to tell to array array
array in an interview I mean in a social media
one question is that okay what is an array
array is a one word my friend used to call me array array array okay
what is an array an array is a collection of huh
what is a array Array is a collection of similar type of come on everyone
collection is a similar type of or same type of values that's why you are in
amate today array is not a values array is a
variables collection of variables tell me this classroom is a collection of
students are collection of chairs classroom is a collection of students
chairs s students where are you my dear student are you in
the floor where are you h then tell me class is a collection of
chairs not students tomorrow I will remove all the chairs
the moment you come there look huh shocked surprised cherry is not there
then you go and ask admin my class is here only today yes or If I don't provide chairs, will you come
and sit here? No. So tell me what is a array? An array is a collection of
variables of huh variables of same type. Tell me can I change a number of
variables time to time on my demand? Yes. So tell me what is a array? When to
use array? What the use of array? Don't write. Let me write. What is an array? An array is a
same type. Now what the use of it? It is used for
storing multiple values of same type of similar type.
Similar type. Similar type indiv.
as one group. Whenever I say group, group should have one name. Now, tell me all you students comes under which
group? Four Java 9 a.m. by Har Krishna, right? That is a group name. As one group by
single name. By single name. Okay. What is the advantage of array? Why we are
choosing array? What the advantage? By using array
we can create number of variables or multiple
variables or number of variables dynamically
at runtime on demand. Understand my point? On demand. Uh now
tell me again array is meant for storing one value or multiple values. Correct?
One value storing or multiple value storing. We need memory. Now tell me array is meant for storing multiple
values as a one group means the memory created from array is called variable object.
Object. Array is an object. Listen carefully. How can we create object?
Come on. Already written not by it will be a
to girlfriend. No, your girlfriend then Java friend
there. No, then you should be with Java where you send your brain answer. How
can you create object of a object? Already you written notes. How can you
create object today? Only written notes. How can we create a object? I told you note also note
syntax for creating a variable note. Object is created by using and then where are event? Come on, come
back to the class and tell me what is an array. An array
is an object in Java. In Java, array is an object.
It is created by using
uh it is created by using new keyword and data type.
New keyword and data type based on based on the type of value or objects we need
to store. Tell me I want to store five integers then what I should use? New
keyword plus which data type int. I want to store 10 floating point numbers. New
keyword plus floating point number is what type
double. I want to store five characters. New keyword and I want to store five
true values. Then new keyword and boolean. I want to store five strings.
new keyword and string. Are you catching my point? So tell me what is what is array in Java? In Java an array is an
object. It is created by using by using new keyword and data type based on the
type of value and objects we want to store. Uh for example,
for example, for storing
integers, we must use int data type. Uh for storing
floating float numbers, we must use double data type.
Uh for storing for storing characters
for storing characters we must use car data type. Uh next for storing
for storing names uh names we must use string data right
for storing boolean values.
boolean values we must use boolean data. Now tell me the example. I
want to store five 6 7 8 these values as a group. Okay. 9 as a
as a group I want to store to store as a group. Which type of values you want to store? Int
i1 equals to uh now if you want to store five values I have to create how many
memories? Five memories at a compilation time or runtime or runtime. If you want
to create memory at runtime, what I should use? New. New following by which type of memory you want to create? Int.
Now you wanted to create int memory as array. Now array is represented by
square bracket. Array is represented by square bracket. Uh in the square bracket
I have to specify how many values to store. How many values you want to store? Five.
Everyone tell me if I write five here, five you are storing up five values you
are storing up. You store five values five memory should create. Now again
repeating this line creates five values of five variables.
Five variables not if I write here 10.
If I write here 20 if I write here 100 can I read this number from the
keyboard? Yes. Uh read from the keyboard. Read from the keyboard and substitute what here called size. Uh if
you write here size, the size is reading from where now keyboard and substituted
here. So tell me what is the syntax for creating variable? Uh array. Array. Data
type. What type of variable you want to create? Primitive variable or reference variable? Reference. What type of
reference variable you want to create? Array. Array is represented by whom what? square bracket. What the syntax to
create array? Data type square bracket variable name equals to come on new
following by data type square bracket what I should write size
tell me here how many data how many variables you are creating five that
five variables name is what same uh 100 variables I'm creating what the name of 100 variables same 200 variables
I'm creating what the name same uh So now tell me what is an array? What the
use of array? An array is a collection of variables of same type. Collection of
variables of same type. It is used for storing multiple values of similar type
as one group. By using single name what the name array name. Next by using array
we can create a number of variables dynamically at runtime on demand.
Whatever the size you specify here, those many variables are created. Everyone understand?
So what is the difference between creating number of variables by your own? Creating number of variables by
using array. If you create number of variables by your own that become what? Static program. Every time I have to
modify the code. If I create by using array, the program become static nature or dynamic nature. Dynamic nature. Time
to time I should change the code. size only have to change. And the size can I read from the
keyboard and substitute here? Yes. Hope everyone understand now. So
tomorrow if I write this complete program, you will get clarity. Actually yesterday is a holiday.
Holiday. Now because of network problem yesterday was holiday that's why today this topic is postponed to tomorrow
also. Otherwise by today you would have understood how to create array, how to work with array and also how to work
with what do you call class also. So one more day delaying. Okay. Tomorrow we'll complete array program and also we are
completing class program also. Tomorrow Thursday now uh by tomorrow we are completing how to read everything. Uh
next by tomorrow we are completing storing data in the program. But if you
want to store a data I have to read the data. Huh? How to read the data from the keyboard that we are learning on Friday
and Saturday. By Saturday completed, what is our target? Develop one complete
project. One complete project. Read and store data in the program statically and
also dynamically. Clear my point? Thank you. That's all for today class. See you tomorrow.
Up to program number five. Everyone should practice and come tomorrow. Okay.
Huh? Tomorrow class you must feel so easy with the terminology and program.
How many times I have to give Google classroom man? Every day you are asking Google classroom, Google classroom.
This is the third time, fourth time you're asking
why you are asking every why you are not joining
then why you are not asking immediately in the class
are you sleeping in the class I said practice up to test 05. Tomorrow I will
give the notes and programs. Practice up to here and come
Hello. Yeah. Tell me
when are you joining class after class
after class? [Music]
And why you are not joining immediately? Why you are joining after class?
Uh sir second time join a class b your answer to my question. Why are you not
joining immediately when I share the link? That is your mistake. What I can do?
Everyone is joining immediately. You are joining when you are free.
Yes sir. Why you want Google classroom
sir? Uh hello
I can't hear you.
Mah, is it possible?
How [Music] how can I give over of 27 to today? five
six days classes
and whenever you miss the class I should take the extra class. So 500
students are there. 500 students are missing the class 500 times. I have to explain again and then
miss the classes as you like and ask me whenever you want. Free I will take the classes. I don't have any other words.
Why should you tell topic name? Are you not following Google classroom?
a Google classroom a day in Google classroom daily notes uploading daily topics uploading
then
We will discuss that point later. Okay. Method low multiple value
for providing I1 memory to I1 variable. We didn't use new keyword for creating
multiple variables for i1 variable. We use new keyword. Clear.
So month let me show you
whether I updated or not updated. I'll show.
What is this?
Sumant.
J how many programs you want?
Four means how many? Can you tell the number?
A did I ask you to stay?
J you only told will you teach more examples more examples means what I don't understand how many are expecting
one or two or 10 or 100 so if you say number I'll count that number Okay.
What doubt you have? Unmute and ask so that I can help you. Okay. Don't waste time by typing so much
of text. Sir, good morning sir.
Fore.
Okay.
program.
Okay.
And
complex problem
sir fourth year fourth second semester sir.
Second semester sir project sir sir first year or second year
fourth year sir fourth year second semester sir fourth year Okay.
[Music]
Yes sir. foreign.
Sorry sir. Sorry. Fifth chapter. Yes sir.
You polluted your brain. Sorry.
Sorry sir.
Let me check.
Is there any
this program. Sorry.
Okay.
Sorry sir.
Change your mind. Sorry sir. Sorry sir. Sorry for the distress
chakra that is part of Joom software.
Are you there?
Join this
now.
Can you click on this link?
What are you doing, man?
Is that link can you click? Yes sir. I am join a Google classroom.
Then reply. Yes sir.

