ript


Good morning everyone. Hope all you people are ready for today
class. Today class is very very important class. People who miss today class will
regret a lot next classes.
Okay. What we have learned in last class?
We completed array. Now tell me what is an array?
Array is a array is a reference data type.
It is a collection of variables of same type in continuation
memory location. An array is a referenced data type.
There is a reference data type. It is a collection of variables of same type in
continuation memory location. Uh what the use of it? It is used for storing
multiple values or multiple objects of similar type for storing I mean similar
type as one group. Similar type as one group.
One group for what purpose? for passing all and also used uh as one group for
passing and returning multiple passing and returning all those
written yesterday these points right
as one unit with a single parameter
and return type.
Okay. Similar type means all these points we have understood. Example, if you take school, we must carry multiple
books. Here uh school is one one method and your house is what one method. Uh
now that bag is nothing but array books inside the bag is values. A bag is a
collection of books. An array is a collection of values. An array is created by using data type either by
using primitive or reference. We must use data type based on the type of the value or type of objects you wanted to
store for storing multiple integer for storing multiple floating points. Yesterday I gave you example assignment
for storing multiple floatingoint members and tell me for storing floatingoint numbers which type of data
type you have to choose double I told you store multiple students fees details
fee is a number what type of number is it integer or floating point integer
or money is in number have you ever visit a bank to deposit
Honey on a deposit slip. If he write 5,000
and give this deposit slip to the cashier, he look at your face very seriously and will add here 0.
Huh? Did you notice? Next time you do one thing today, tomorrow go to bank with
some 500 100 whatever the money you want to deposit and write 5,000 or whatever the amount you want in integer format
and with the red color he will add he look at your face first and you are giving extra work to him. Now he look at
your face inside he will score tre fellow who will add 0. It is a money
means what in the format of floating point. So what type of array you have created yesterday?
Huh? What type of array you created? Check once your notes.
Huh? What type of array you created? Create an array object to store five
student values. Print all five values. Uh tell me here what type of area you
requested to create double. Fe is a double type value. P is a
floating point number. Floating point number.
And tell me in Java
the floating point number is
What did I
one minute sir? So today online class are facing problem.
One second. Online is not link is not working. Students are facing problem.
Ah okay done. So tell me uh in Java the floating point number is what it double
type. So we must create array by using we must create array by using double
type. Sir if I create with in type any problem. Okay. Morning time you have to eat tiffen, afternoon you have to eat
food. No sir, morning food, afternoon tiffen. Any problem? No problem. But it
is a wrong idea, right? So you have to follow the procedure. That's it. Everyone doing something, you should also do the same. I will do some other
thing and then you will not be considered as a regular person something that
by using double type uh double array. What do you write now
here? What the name of the array? Excellent fees equal to uh what you
write now lower bracket first fee 3,500 second course fee 4,500
no 4,5 uh third fees uh say 2,500 uh next fees is 5,000 some number random
numbers you assign okay and next fees is what some 20,000 sir all you have
written inteious only now sir all you have written inteious only then
if I Take int data type. Any problem? No problem. Compile successfully.
Okay. Now compile successfully. Executed successfully. But it is a right way of creating it in a wrong way. Wrong way. A
in a double variable. I can store int value. It is what variable? Int
variable. Int value storing. If I choose a double data type here. Here variable is created of what type? Double type. In
a double type I can store int because it is a lesser range. Uh but when you store this 3,500
inside a double variable compiler software internally converts the 3,500
to 3,5000. You no need to write compiler will write
system.out prints of what you write now zero. uh control 1 compile control 2
executed and we are getting output what you getting 6,500.0 zero. So who is the cashier now in your
Java? JVM. JBM looking at your face. Tumor fellow. You take variable of type
double but storing in enter. Let me write 0. It is writing 0 internally.
Hope you all understand. Now can I create int variable for storing the fees? Yes. How long? As long as as long
as you are not storing the fee values. As long as you are not storing fee values with floating point0 suppose 4550
pis I want to store five five and 50 pis then tell me if I choose here int allowed or not allowed not allowed
compiler throw error if I choose double I can store either int number or also what float number you can store but
internally when you store int number it is converted as float number for us
control 1 compile control 2 executed Look at there we are getting values
3,500 after 0 we are getting only one one digit only we will get okay if zero
there zero will not be displayed okay it is not five pisa this is 50 pisa
5 pisa means 05 okay remember that nice and now next point try to answer uh what
the next example I told mobile numbers okay what the mobile
number mobile number is Okay. Short number, large integer number.
Large integer number. Uh large integer number. And the large integer numbers.
In Java, in Java, the large integer numbers must
be represented, not stored. Hello. Catch my point? I didn't use the word
store. First you have to represent if you write large integer number 9 0 1 0454584
compiler throw error because that number is what type int by default that number is what type int in Java. The large
integer numbers must be represented as long type uh by
suffix with capital L or small L. Then further
we must store understand my statement. We must store it by using long type
variable. So first you have to represent as a long type directly you cannot type. Post
represented as a long time then store by using long variable. Then which type of array you must create? Long array. Uh
mobiles. Mobile numbers.
Mobile numbers. Two words in two words. First letter is small letter. Second letter is what? Capital letter equal to
flower bracket. Let me take my number 90104545 84. Okay. Comma. Uh my balu number 85
next number. Okay. And my ponal babu number next number six. Okay. Other
number seven. 6 7 8. Five numbers I told. You can just check that. Okay. Uh
now totally I can bring it to the next line also. No problem. So totally five numbers I have stored. Is it compile or
not compile? Not compile. Why? Because this number I didn't represented as a long. I'm trying to store in long but
not represented as a long. So compiler throw a error. Integer number too large. Five errors we got. Then how to solve
this problem? L L
capital small L. Anything okay? Anything is okay. Compile successfully. So first
you represented as a log then stored as a log. Now let me print all values.
Can I copy? Can I show my talent of edit plus? Edit plus has given us
a feature column by selection in place of these what I should write? Mobile
number paste. Hey understand just a seconds completed.
If it is a notepad system out
okay control one compile control 2 executed all mobile numbers are displayed is mobile number displayed
with L no edit plus has a shortcuts already we
learned go and study shortcuts start use shortcuts okay so this is what assignment I gave
yesterday people tried and yesterday one student has tried this
example with the different data types. I really enjoyed. I will share her images
and programs. Not this one images and programs in the Google
classroom. Uh today I will share whatever she tried
interest if you have interest of learning lot subject. If you have a view
on the interview in the interview today I have learned with in double long
interviewer may ask the data type with anything eight data types are there I
can teach one or two examples in in in your hostel or in your room you have to
practice with all data types are catching my point it is you should
have your own interest in the interviewer may ask any question I must able to answer. Interview may ask with
the different data types. If I am not aware of other data types, I cannot answer. Let me try with other data type.
Here if I write another thing, what happened? If I use your bite, what happen? If I use your short, what happen? If I use your string, what
happen? If I use your car, what happen? So you should practice by your own that
that R&D test cases. I told you now test cases you have to prepare. Once you
learn one program on that program what are the maximum compile errors I can get what are the maximum test cases I can
prepare you have to practice that interest you should have so after going
to room spending the free time on unnecessary things will not give you
success are you following my point you spending time on unnecessary thing ask a question
now I spend 10 minutes on this particular Okay, particular thing let's say YouTube
you are watching are watching after 3 months I need job will it help me for
getting job no keep it side unable to control you watching that then uninstall
it unable to control you to download again install uh then give that mobile
to your parent buy one normal mobile double mobile is there now 1,000 rupees mobile will be there buy that 1,000
rupees mobile why you need mobile now until your your course is completed you
need mobile only for to talk to your parents that's it if you stay away from your smart mobile
I'm telling you you will find lot of free time in your life and you'll start
getting bored then you will get a feeling okay let me go to lab to
practice let me talk to my friend on Java or let me do something so if you
are staying with your smart mobile you are wasting Every time I'm telling you stay away from the smart mobile and next
again I'm telling you don't practice anything on the Google you are not having that much knowledge to practice
in the Google not required man when you have to search in the Google and you have to practice more points I will tell
you here you have to learn only one thing how many programs I explained the class today that programs you have to by
hard that definition theory definition and sample program it's a memory diagram you have to one more time practice buy
one rough notes you are having class notes Buy one rough notes with you know less quality papers less price more
papers less price book you buy okay and then whatever you learn uh what is array
right answer what is array interviewer ask me question what is array what should I answer what is array why array
how to create array what the difference between that syntax and this syntax a small program completed now open system
now in system you ask a question what I want I want to create array how what type of ar create in what the size you
Five what the values five values then what next I want read and print printed completed what the rules we have to
follow while while accessing I should pass the index number within the range zero to length minus one so you have to
start question all these points yourself one type after that how many data types are there in Java are you told only one
data type in now how many data types in Java oh my god there are nine data types are 10 data types are there eight
primitive data types and two reference data type array and class. Did he teach class? No. Did he teach each array? Yes.
Uh no. Okay. Let me keep the reference data type side. Let me try to do R&D on these 80 data types. Let me create um
let me create array by using by create array by using short. Create array by using car. So if you try like this then
you will get more idea. So that all points are covered on array by using
eight data types. Next day when you come to the class how much confidence you'll be there and whenever you learn
something new how much happiness you will get now you will get goosebumps
okay anything you will learn by your own that will give you the so much happiness
and happy tears you won't get that happiness and even you get 1 cr lot lottery also
one time anything you learn by your own one day you try to get something new point by your own uh that is what first
time you are feeling you are tasting the success. Once you taste the success, no one can
stop you. Every day you are trying to do different different test cases and enjoy the learning and sharing that learning
to your friends and enjoying with your friends. Got idea. So will you try that?
Uh try try okay if you don't try I'm telling you you are going to the lose lot. Remember always I'm telling you
which question will be asked in the interview. Even I don't know even interviewers also don't know. Interview
will be dynamic not static. Understood? Interview will be dynamic
means what? Based on your answers, interview your put the questions. He
don't have the question paper in front of him. He will come to interview. Take your resume. In region,
first question only fixed. From there onward the flow questions will come based on your reply.
Then tell me if you are not having the awareness and the full knowledge. If you buy only frequently asked questions will
you get job? It will work in your company. I mean it will work in your academics. In academics five questions
last five years also same five questions will come. If you take my Andra University anybody
there Andra University and university student. No. Uh if I take Andra University I'm
from Andra University. Okay. I surprised
there is artificial art a subject is there in my MCA that a subject question
paper last five years same question paper coming okay my senior told
these five questions you will get compulsory all five questions ex and I ask mama these five questions are
repeated also same questions will come right and that's why you have refer last
10 years of question paper five questions you extract and you can pass but our company written test exam is not
like that which question you will get nobody knows so you should get ready think like a compiler and JVM and
programmer for that let us learn full knowledge okay now so now I'm going to
launch the next new topic very important expecting everyone to participate ready
okay let Let me quickly revise what you have learned up to now
in this topic and we'll go for new topic.
Today class is very important as I told you by end of today class and end of
tomorrow class object oriented programming 90% will be completed I mean
70% will be completed. Uh now look at here what you're trying to understand
primitive variable creation problem solution array variable object creation
problem solution class variable class object advantages first one now look at
that what is the primitive variable how to create a primitive variable uh primitive variable created by B1 equal
to 1 which data type I have chosen here by uh tell me using B1 can I store
another value. No, I want to store multiple values. What is the problem with the primitive variable? Primitive
variable can store only one value. If you want to store multiple values, what I should do? I should create multiple
variables. 100 values I want to create. I want to store 100 variables. I have to create. If I create 100 variables, I
have two problems are there. Problem number one, in the memory, it takes more
time to read because in the memory, it is a RAM memory. All boxes will be there
in the RAM memory. The values are stored in a different different places jig places then searching them reading them
taking lot of time. So next problem is program will become what static in
future if you want to add one more value one more variable I have to create and moreover if I define a method. Last
class I told you I can create our own method add method. Uh to the add method if you want to pass value I have to
define parameters. How many parameters I created? Two parameters. Then how many values only I can pass to this method?
Two values only. If I try to pass one value, is it accepted? No. If I pass two
values, is it accepted? No. If two values accepted. If you pass three values, four values, accepted? No. So
tell me, if you want to pass one value, one parameter I have to remove. If you want to pass two values, two parameters.
If you want three values, three parameters. Time to time whenever you want to change values I have to modify
parameters. Tell me program is a static nature or not? Yes. So with the multiple
primitive variables we have two problem. Program take more time to read and print values. Second program becomes static
nature. Every time I have to modify the code as a solution what we are using array. What is the advantage of array?
Array providing a way for us to group the variables as a one unit. And I can
tell to compiler and JVM how many variables you have to create time to time. And then how to create uh if you
are working with variable means I have to create array object to store array object. I have to create array variable.
So we have to work with two things array variable and array object. Then now tell me is it array variable or array object?
It is a primitive variable. It is not array variable. It is not array object. How can I tell to compiler it is array
type variable? square bracket after a data type I have to write square bracket maybe you will question me sir my s told
that square bracket after variable B1 but you are writing after a data type I confuse in my academics I have used
square bracket after variable in your class I'm writing after after a data type which one I should follow
which one you have to follow you want to follow academica you want to
follow it cityrishna is ICity right? Uh it is recommended.
Some faculties will say square bracket is after variable recommended. That is wrong. Okay. Now after a data type only
you are right. In C language people write square bracket after variable. In Java we write square bracket after data
type. Tell me this is a primitive variable reference variable. Everyone should answer
variable reference variable. Primitive variable or reference variable? Reference variable. Why
reference variable? Because it is array. Array is what data type? Reference data.
So but by is a primitive variable. Now if you write only by primitive variable.
If I write a byte square bracket reference variable. Array type reference variable matter for storing what type of
values? Byte values. Then equal to uh you want to store one value or two value a group of multiple values
in Java. How can I group flower bracket? So I have to write floor
bracket. In the flower bracket what I should write? One value, second value, third value, fourth value with comma,
separator 100 values. Everyone understand? And tell me all 100 values we have stored in a continuation memory
location with one variable B1. So tell me as wherever this B1 is going,
wherever this B1 is going, there this object also going or not? Give me that bag.
Bag. Take that bottle.
Uh, everyone watch here. Bag. Bag has a handle.
There you go. No water. Now, this is bag.
Okay. Now, this floor bracket to closed bracket is what? Bag. Tell me this bag.
I want to take from one place to another place. Can I take like this? No right for that what I required handle. Okay,
that handle is nothing but B1. Understood? This open bracket closed
bracket is bag. B1 is what? Handle. Now the handle is going along with the
handle bag is also going along with the bag books also going. Understood? Thank you.
Uh now tell me now online students how can I show you? not possible by array B1 equal to floor bracket. This
is a bag. This bag is now tell back bag manufacturer is stitching the handle
that handle is nothing but B1. So tell me I am sending this B1 from one class
method to another class method along with the B1 array is going or not? Along with array all 100 values are going or
not. Uh tell me when I am changing values in this array object do I need to modify the parameter of the method? Not
required. Uh no tell me what is the memory diagram here by array B1 is a
variable open bracket closed bracket is array object and inside array object
what are created array location. Every location contain index number start from
zero array index and tent is what reference reference is stored inside B1.
So whenever you are working with the array how many memories are there totally two memories number one variable
memory number two object memory in variable memory we have values of object memory we have values
inside object values are directly there for each variable for each value separate variables are there for each
value separate variable is there are you catching my point right each variable contain name index number index number
then totally what is the name of that location array variable name B1 of 0, B1
of 1, B1 of 2. Okay, now my array is ready. By using array what I did, I have
stored multiple values as a one group. What next I have to do? Next, I want to pass these values from one method to
another method. They go I am passing one method to another method. I have created a class B with add method with what how
many parameters? One parameter of what type? Byte type of bite array type uh
byte array type variable receive byte value of byte array object
byte array object can contain multiple values uh as and when I am changing
value do I need to do any parameter change here no answer all people I want to take only one value then what value
will I have to take by two only two values how many parameters two parameters only three value three
parameters I want to take zero to n number of values I want to take then the
parameter should be byte type of byte array type. If I take byte array, can I
pass value directly in array object? Array object. If we pass array object in
that array object, can I have zero values? Come on. Uh by array B1 equal to empty
flower bracket I have written. All students are you seeing the first box? Left side first box byte array B1 equal
to empty open bracket closed bracket. It is a empty array object. How many values are there? Zero. Uh add of B1. How many
arguments I am passing? One argument. What is that argument? Array object with how many values? Zero. Allowed. Yes. Now
I am changing one value. Should I do any change in the method parameter? No.
Parameter is fixed. Now in the array object I have take what? First value five. What I am passing? How many
arguments I am passing? One argument of what type? Array which contain one value. Now I am changing B3. B3 equal to
two values. to pass two values. Do I need to add two parameters here? No. One
parameter accepting one argument. That one argument is capable of carrying what? Two values. So whenever I'm
changing the main method, do I need to modify this method or not required? Not required. Array program is now static
nature programmer, dynamic nature programmer. So whenever you want to store multiple values as a one group. Whenever you want
to pass multiple values at a time from one method to another method what I have to choose individual primitive variables
or array object. Array object. Array object is created by using the name arena or by using the primitive data
type. Primitive data type. What type of values you want to store? That type of primitive type you have to take here. I
want to store fee primitive data type double. I want to store mobile number. Primitive data type long. I want to
store uh say uh student numbers primitive data type int. I want to store
gender male female gender and then I have to choose what care. I want to store name of the students data type is
what string everyone understand. So this slide hope given a full information clear all these points I will share you
don't worry but in notes want something explain in the slide something other explaining I'm confusing that is your
problem my dear confusion master in the class whatever explain is it there in
the company no so whatever there in the slide if same thing I explain second time what you learn nothing now that's
why regular class something will be there slides something will be there company some other thing is there interview some other thing is there so
that your brain will be fully understand all the different cases. Okay. Uh shall we start next point? Now tell me what is
the problem of array? By using array I can store multiple values of uh uh uh
similar type or same type. Now I want to store different type of values. What
type of array I have created here? Uh byte array. In a byte array I am trying
to store 5.0. 5.0 Zero is what type double true what type boolean allowed or
not allowed? Not allowed. If you try to store compiler will throw error.
So what is the problem of array? Array can store only similar type of values.
It cannot allows us to store higher range values and incompatible type values. If you try to store compiler
throw error. Understood right now. Continuation.
Am I going fast? All people are comfortable. Sometimes when I feel you are
understanding everything I will speak fast that is also part of training only
is your team lead team manager client will talk slowly until you understand listen no they'll speak fast so you
should also understand fast speaking also that's why once I feel you
understood everything I'll speak fast so if you are feeling incomfortable please let me know immediately All
right. Eight pointer.
If you provide higher data type, higher type values are stored. Now, uh eighth point, seven points completed, right?
Rule in accessing array values is the seventh point. Eighth point,
array problems, array problems.
Aan did he join late class?
Array has five problems.
Array has five problems. P is a don't write. Let me explain to
her. P is money in real life. What is money?
Is it integer number or floatingoint number?
That's why double understood array has a five problems. Problem
number one, it can store only
same type or it's
lesser range type values same type or it's a lesser range type
values.
It can store only same type or it's a lesser type range values.
If you try to store If we try to store
higher range or
incompatible types we will get compile time error.
Second point
its size is fixed. Means after array object creation
we cannot Increase or decrease
exercise.
Third point. Did you understand this point? I'll show you with the program. Okay.
Third point. It doesn't have
inbuilt methods to perform
different operations like
searching sorting,
removing etc.
Fourth, it can store
values or objects only
with the index mapping.
only with index mapping.
It cannot store with
our own
our own number or uh our own key mapping. Let me take
directly our own key mapping.
Here
he can be either
number or a names.
Fifth point, it can store
values or objects only in
Insertion order.
totally how many problems are there? Five problems.
All these five problems we are going to implement as part of collections chapter. Okay. Collections is
collection is
enhancement to the area.
Uh in this top chapter in this here we need to understand only first problem.
It can store only same type or it lesser right type value. It cannot store what
value higher range or incompatible types. This one point only we need to
understand remaining four problems we are going to understand as part of the collections chapter at this minute I
just given a list because no point of view for just nodes point of array has totally how many problems five problems
in that first problem we are trying to understand it can store only same type or its lesser type values as as part of
the problem we cannot say it cannot store higher range or its or
incompatible type values this uh now look at here small program let us write I'm writing int array
I a2 equal already I1 created I a2 equal to I'm writing flower bracket uh flower
bracket here I'm writing five allowed five five allowed five is what type in
type allowed no error okay and next I'm writing here carefully thing single
quote why not allowed
Single code is what type? Car type. Car type is lesser than in greater than in
you are still using your B onlyer. You told already yesterday I told you no
single quote a is car is lesser than in then what the problem to store? No
problem. No incompatible.
It's compatible. Car is lesser than in. Oh my god.
Oh my god. Car is lesser than
compatible and
lesser than what type in type. Uh now tell me compile or not? Yes. Uh tell me
what is stored inside system dot out dot print ln uh can I write like this?
Observe I a2 of zero what is printed? Five plus double quotes some space gap
plus I a of 1 what is printed? Single code 97 97 is stored.
Hey Control
one control what is printed 97 5 97 understand
uh so carry is compatible when you store character to the int variable it is
converted to 97 tell me now I am trying to take I'm trying to take one more
array I3 tell me five allowed single code allowed comma Huh? I'm writing 7 L.
What is this variable? What is this variable?
The background background color is variable. What type of variable is this?
It is array of variables, right? Of what type? Int type. Variable of what type?
Here variable of what type? Here variable of what type
variable is what type in in that variable in type I am trying to store what value long type possible or not
possible don't see only value background variable is also therea
understood uh tell me here background what is there variable here also we have
variable here also we have variable in this variable I'm trying to store Five allowed in this variable I'm trying to
store single quote here allowed in this variable I'm trying to store long allowed or not allowed not allowed
compiler throw error if I write here comma uh that means what you understood
if I write one comma means what you understood one more variable is there what type of variable
int type what type of array it is n variable will be what in I'm trying to
store 10.5 allowed or not allowed not allowed 10.5 not allowed. So compiler is
throwing error. So if you create array of what type int what is allowed to
store int or it's lesser type values are allowed. Five is allowed single quote is
allowed long float double or string string double quotes a string double
quotes a and boolean true all these are not allowed. If you try to store compiler throw a error.
This is allowed. This is allowed. Not allowed. Not allowed. Not allowed. Not
allowed. Why? Because the data type is what type in right. For example,
completed guys. Can I expect everyone understand car can be stored inside int
variable? No problem. It is lesser range. Uh please write down ranges.
uh assignment based on ranges.
What is a lesser range bite by to short
to
Enter
in to long to float float to double sir
how long to float possible I'll explain you first remember Next
car
allowed assigned to whom now? In
Then where is boolean? Is boolean compatible with these data
types? No.
Outside boolean data will be there. Boolean is incompatible.
This is
lesser range. to
higher range.
You can answer any questions in the data types assignment lesser range to higher range.
Okay guys, shall we go next point? Uh to solve all array problems
downright to solve
all array problems, comma for storing
different type of values as one group.
We must We must use
class.
You must use class data type.
Okay. Huh? Uh let's go to the next topic. Everyone ready? Completed
working with class. Uh not completed. Correct.
done. Okay. Working with class
Okay, now carefully answer confusion point ready this confusion
small confusion if you come out object oriented programming I want to store one integer number what
should I use int data type variable okay now I ask a
question you unable to answer I give answer next question you should answer as I answered Repeat again. I want to
store I wanted to store integer data. Then I have to use
primitive data type int. Again repeating I want to store integer data. I must use
primitive data type int. Second question. I want to store floating point
data. I want full answer.
I should use a primitive data type double double not
again again I'm asking question I want to store one large integer number in the program
I must use a primitive data type long okay now I want to store characters
I must use a primitive data type here are these primitive data types user
defined or predefined already given by sun micro system we are just using them for creating the
variable clear next question I'm asking I want to store five inteious
uh I want to store five inteious then create array by using primitive data
type int and tell me again create array object create array object by using
primitive data type int I want to store five mobile numbers.
Create array object by using primitive data type long. Okay. Now I want to
store one student one student h sorry I want to store five students t details
then create array object by using primitive data type double. Okay. Huh?
Five students student numbers in array. Five students mobile numbers long array.
Five student feed details double array. Okay. Now tell me for creating array we
have used data type int long double or user defined a predefined predefined
already aware up to now understand. Now the second question, third question I'm asking think until I want to store
different type of values then I should use class super which class
I want to store integer primitive type int. I want to store
floating point number. I have primitive type double. I want to store five
integers in array. Tell me you are saying int integer particular particular type but
actually is what I want to store int primitive type int. I want to store five
inteious array int array. Now similarly tell me I want to store different type
of values as a group. Then you are said what? Use a class which class.
Uh try to understand now the class the word class is not a particular class
that is a heading. Uh primitive types multiple primitive types are there.
Array multiple arrays are there. Similarly class is a concept name. uh
now if you wanted to store multiple values of different type I must use one particular class now what is that class
which class understand my point again repeat heading
is what primitive types how many primitive types eight uh array how many
arrays eight primitive types eight arrays uh tell me class
in that under a class how many classes eight classes into class long class
float class array. No int class can store only int. Float class can store
only float. Care class can store only care. But you want to store into float to care only in a different type of then
my question is under the class that circle is filt empty there is no
predefined class to store your different type of values. Understand my conclusion? Uh I want to store primitive
value. primitive values how many are there eight so that's why eight types are defined for you already how many
arrays are there eight so eight arrays are already defined for you but now come to the class class is meant for storing
a fixed value or same different type of values different I want to store you want store everyone store integer fixed
type in I want to store you want to store everyone store long integer fixed type long I want to store different
combination of values you want to store different combination of values. Other person want to store another different
combination of values. Are you following my point? When the combination of values are changing, can single class serve
your requirement? No. Then who has to create the class? You yourself.
Then what Sun Microsystem did? Sun Microsystem has not who is Sun Micros?
The company who invented Java. Okay. James Kosling. H. So sun micros system has not defined any predefined class for
you. They are given a syntax for you to create your own class. Ada understand my
point. You create your own class by following syntax ra whatever the values you want to store by your own. Don't ask
me because your requirement is changing other person requirement is changing. Tell me now your father earning money
for studying two children. You want to study Java. Your brother want to study
Python. Your sister want to study net. Then tell me is your father studying all the three courses? No. Your father
earning money means your father only providing syntax for you. Then you
choose your own class Java. Your brother choosing his own class Python. Uh sister
choosing their own class called what?NET. Everyone understand? Right. I am teaching Java to all students in a
understandable way. Right? Then you have to take same example to explain the interviewer. No, you have to choose your
own example with my own explanation. Are you following my point? So similarly class is a predefined data type or user
defined data type. Uh tell me what is a class? First question always uh what is a class?
Second second point why class? What is a class? Y class. Third.
Third. How can we how can we create a class? How can we
create a class? Three questions. Come on. What is a class? A class is a userdefined
userdefined data type. Sir, my s told class is a blueprint of an object.
My s told class is a blueprint of an object. You are saying class is a user defined data type. that is object-
oriented programming. This is data types. Okay. According to data types, class is a userdefined data type of an
of an object of an object. Uh next why class? A class is used for
story. Uh multiple
multiple values. Multiple values are multiple values are
multiple objects of of uh same or different types. same or
different type same or different type I can also store multiple values of same type sir if you want to store multiple
values of same type already array there now array doesn't have methods to perform different operations now I want
to perform different operation then I have to choose what class a class is used for storing multiple values
multiple values are multiple objects of same and different types as as one group
as one group with uh as one group in continuation
continuation memories
with multiple name single name single with a single name. Okay. Then how can
we create a class? A class is created by using
by using the keyword by using the keyword class.
Now what the syntax? Fourth point syntax for creating class
not syntax for creating a class. Now what
the syntax for creating class? class following by class name class name open
bracket closed bracket hello this is a known pointer new pointer
hey you know already how to create class no this is already I know oh only one point
I don't know now class is called what user defined data type remaining all
points already I know okay let us try to understand a small program here
and tell me what the solution by using class. How to create a class? By using class. Class name open bracket closed
bracket. I'm choosing the class name as what? For example, example. Uh now what
values you want to store? Student. What the name of the class? Student. I want to store employee. What the name of the
class? Employee. I want to store bank account. What the what the name of the class? Bank account. I want to store bike values. What the name of the class?
Bike. For example, any object. Okay. for example any kind of values. So I'm choosing just name as what example. So
tell me now what the purpose of the class is meant for storing multiple values or multiple objects or same type
or different type. Now I'm storing uh tell me once you write a class for storing values that class is called what
data type data type inside I'm storing values all people look at the five
integer number five floating point number 6.7 character single one array
object one string object multiple objects also I can store now array object and string object so I have
stored values and objects as a one group is it compiled
Is it compiled? Class is meant for storing multiple values or multiple
objects as a one group. So like in array in class also I have written directly
values. Now tell me is it compiled? Is it a valid syntax? Adex is it a valid
syntax? What are you doing here? Story as what
type is a class meant for is a class meant for storing multiple values of same type
different type and then five you want to store as inta FL double car how you
didn't mention that how compiler can decide compiler throw error so tell me
like in array inside a class open bracket closed bracket can I mention the
values directly no you must create variable variables and assign the values
to the variables like how you created variables inside main method same way
you have to create inside the class. So then what is the difference between creating variables inside the method
inside the class. If you create variables inside the method they become individual variables not as a group. If
you create variables inside a class I can I can use them as a group. I can pass them as a group. If I create inside
a method, I cannot create them as a group. Okay, I'll I I'll show you that point also practically. First you
understand uh how what is the syntax for creating a class keyword following by class name and then inside the class
body what I have to do? I must create variables and then I should assign the
values to that variables. So tell me what is an array? Array is a collection of variables of same type. Now tell me
what is a class? Class is a userdefined data type. It is a collection of
variables of same type or different type. Same or different type. A collection is a
userdefined data type. User defined data type. Comma. It is a okay user defined
data type of an object. Comma. One more definition. It is a collection of
variables of same or different type. Same or
different type. Uh it is used for what is the class? It is used for storing
multiple values or multiple objects of same or different type as one group in
continuation memory locations or continuation memory memory locations
with a single name. Everyone understand sir? Uh write on please if you write
these points one second here what I have to write here variables with the values
variables with the values.
Now fifth one sample program.
Create a class a storing
intro
and car type values
floating on carrot. type values
long array and string type objects as one group.
Create a class for storing in floating point and car type values long array and
string type objects as one group.
Uh help me to write code now. What do you write? Class. Example.
Uh now inside this class example, what should I do? I should create
variable. What type of value want to store? Integer. Int i1 = 5. What type of
value want to store? Floating. Floating is what type? Double. D1 equal to 6.7.
What type of want to store? character car is what car ch or c1 ch equal to
single quote a uh I want to store long array long array l a equals to floor
bracket 8 comma 9 tell me l required or not required not required because it in
the range of int l is not required when I should write l if the value is exceeding the range of int uh now I want
to store string object string string S1 equals to double quotes H
close class. That's all.
Did you place syntax in box?
Always code part writing box so that it is easy for you to read and understand
tomorrow class we are developing three projects and I'll give assignment two assignments to you. Okay, tomorrow class
if you miss just take the break of this course and join next batch
tomorrow Saturday I am I have a lower appointment s I cannot do anything okay
tomorrow class if you miss tomorrow class you are going to miss lot
where to scroll nana Huh? Arshawadan
confusion questions don't ask. Scroll which line numbers are there?
Uh tell me now everyone what this class is called? Data type class.
This class is a data type class. Why data type class? Because it is meant for storing data. Okay. It is a userdefined
data type.
Above class is called
data type class because
because it is meant for storing data.
It is meant for storing data. The name of the data type is
tell me data type should have a name now floating point data types name is what
bite int by short int long these are the data type names like that I am saying
this is a data type what type of data type it is class what the name of the
data type example Everyone understand again? Repeating. Primitive data types,
array data types, class data types. What type of what are the primitive data
types? What the name of the primitive data type? Into long float. Array data type names what? Inter
like that. What is the data type? Class. What the name of the data type? Example.
The name of the data type is class name.
example.
Uh now tell me buddy, you want to access all these variables once you create a
class with a variables for that you want to read these values or not. Uh for that
I have to I have two options. Listen listen listen I have two options. Option number one, if you want to access them
and read and display them on the console, I need a main method now. Where I should create main method? Because it
is a class. Can I create main method in this class or not? Yes, I can create. But is it a good idea, bad idea, bad
idea? Because you created this class for what purpose? Storing purpose, not for execution, not
for execution. Suppose you constructed your house in that one room is there.
That room for kitchen. Kitchen means what? Food preparing. You preparing food there only, eating there only. Good
idea, bad idea, bad idea. That is only for eating purpose only. Hall is meant
for just watch taking rest there and watch TV. But every food you are bringing there and eating and throwing
their mother getting angry and scolding you know. Uh so similarly you should not mix it. This class is meant for only
storing data. So only create variables and store values. don't define main
method. So in order to read variables or values available in this class, I need one main method class. Can I create
another class called with the name test? Any name you can choose a test? I uh tell me now this class test is data type
class executable class. Executable class. Why it is called executable class? because it contains main method
static wide main of static wide main of string array string array ars open
bracket closed bracket up to now all people understand so tell me once you create a class with the variables I have
to read values I have to store values different operations I want to perform to perform different operations I
required what main method I have two options create main method in the same class example or create in another class
so The right idea is what creating in another class because that class is meant for only storing data. Tell me
this classroom is meant for only learning Java teaching Java. Okay. Then
afternoon lunch time I'm bringing the food into the classroom and serving. Is it okay? Not okay. Not okay. So I have
to serve in separate room like salar or some other place I have to serve. This room is only for meant for studying.
Similarly main method should not create in the same class. Two separate classes I created. Nice. Then tell me from the
class test I want to read data available in the class example.
I want you eat the food. So what should I say? Eat food. If I say eat food, you
look at my face and say where I should tell go to sellar and eat food.
There I have to tell the particular name. Now similarly I want read data. So I am writing something like this. System
dot just I want read data system dot outprint l and off what I want read this
value five is available which variable I1 can I write I1 like a previous
programs no compiler will throw error now what error come faster cannot find
symbol variable I1 in which class test compiler searching for I1 variable which
class test class but I1 variable available in which class example class then I have to refer I1 with the name
example So I am writing example dot what the meaning of this statement compiler blind
fellow variable I1 is available in class
example go to class example compiler working okay example class found wow in
the example class int also found super and reading file
come on come on is this statement meant for reading value of this statement ment for
providing memory. Last class what I told whenever reading the value you should not read from
previous line you should read from memory.
I don't know Hindi. You don't know Java.
Huh? A little progress each day adds up to
big result to add. Okay.
Come on. Come on. Answer. What is my next task? First task completed. What is my first task? Create a class to store
different type of values. After storing, what is my next task? Reading. for reading purpose just variable creation
statement is there sufficient it should also have memory last class I told you
is a data type providing memory giving information to create memory
uh just by data type variable name is memory allocated no
if you write example do I1 compiler look at your face and say array tumor fellow
I1 doesn't have memory sorry I cannot read what are the variable name non-static
variable non-static variable I1 cannot be referenced from a static context.
So I1 the meaning of this statement is I1 doesn't have memory I cannot access
and tell me how can I provide memory two ways using static and using new uh now
I'm providing memory by using static tell me what static is doing it is telling to the compiler and JVM provide
a memory to i1 variable as what type in how many bytes four bytes then compiler
JVM accepted okay I provide memory then further I'm reading allowed or not allowed allowed compile successfully.
executed successfully and providing a java
is exe what is the name of the class 08
class I save java file name with that name compile execute what the output
coming understood ready to answer my question
is the keyword static provide memory to all variables or only i1 variable
Baba super macha super macha tell me I'm writing D1 compiler not compile what is
the problem D1 is not static and doesn't have memory
compiler throws the same error non-static variable D1 cannot be referenced from a static context what
should I do now uh what should I do now I have to
provide a memory as what static now D1 variable memory allocated and can be
read. Display the value on the console. You come to this chapter to provide a
memory to each variable individual as a grouper. Uh tell me using keyword static. Can I
provide group memory or individual memory? I don't want individual memory. I want
group memory. All these variables I want to provide as a one group as a bag and I
want to take that back from one place to another place. If you take static static static static are there bag individual
books individual books but I don't want I don't have bag I want bag now so then I
must not use static keyword I should use what new keyword
I should use new keyword if I use new keyword here then what happen memory to
only to this one variable no uh you should not use a new keyword in the variable declaration. I must use a new
keyword as part of the logic as part of the logic. Wherever he wanted to access
these variables there I should use what new up to now people understand right
there are two ways of explanation sir my explanation is step by step I will go
okay your college explanation direct point what is the direct point uh you
want to read all these values you want to read all these values write this line why right line hey write on no sir not
understand explain again write on if more questions are coming what is our number thank you sir Understood? Why
internal marks cut? No. Uh in my class, do you have any internal marks? No. So I
don't write a direct statement. I will go step by step, step by step, step by step. You should have patience. See, and
final conclusion will come. Uh tell me if you learn step by step, step by step. What is the what is the advantage? What
the benefit? Enter your ask any question. If you know each and every minute there in detail, any question you
can answer or not? If I write a direct statement then enter your may not ask direct statement you cannot answer right
what the difference between static and new static is static new is new enter difference whenever you want to use
static use static whenever you want to use new new what is the difference sorry I don't know okay now tell me when to
use static I want to provide individual memory to each variable static I want to
provide group memory to all variables new okay where I should use static in
the each variables separately when where I should use in your in the logic okay
now tell me don't write oh you're writing
concentrate focus what next question once something next question should come in your mind sir you return new here
this new should provide a memory individual memory or group memory group memory means multiple variables new
keyword should provide a memory to multiple variables has a group whose variables
whose variables class variables which class did you mention there then compiler
confus and throw error no you just write a new what should I do with new tumor fellow throwing error identifier
identifier means name is required which name to which class
variables you want to provide memory example so you have to Write example. Hey, if you write just example, it is
the wrong syntax. It is asking what bracket. Okay, bracket. Compiler asking
only one bracket. Now, so I have written only one bracket. Compile
use brain little bit illegal start of expression. Okay. Close bracket following by semicolon. Control one
compile. Compile successfully. Everyone understand? So tell me what is the
difference between static and new? Okay, first I want to store multiple values of different type. I have to use class. I
have to create class. Uh I have to create a class. After creating class, I have to read values
available in that class. For reading values available in the class, I have to access variable. Can access variable
directly. No, I have to provide a memory. How many ways we can provide memory? Two ways. Using static and new
using static, I can provide memory individual to each variable. No, I want as a group memory. For a group memory,
what should I do? I have to use a new keyword. Uh if I use a new keyword, I have to tell to new keyword to which
class object you have to provide me to which class members you have to provide memory. Then I have to write class name
following by parenthesis semicolon. Why parenthesis? I will tell you. Okay. Now tell me at this line number everyone
should focus. Are all the variables of example class provide memory or not?
Yes. Then how to use that memory? Next line
in this line you have only provide memory. After that I want access that
memory in the next line. If you want to access that memory in the next line back
uh you went to the shop shopkeeper what he did now it's very why did he add
anything more? Uh okay now this bag you went to the shop bag owner has a stitch
the bag bag is there then immediately you're buying and taking you are verifying handles there or not handle is
there or not side handles are there or not three handles are there not verifying so currently what you created
what you constructed what you prepared only bag inside bag books are there yes
I want to carry this bag for that what I required handle handle means what I told variable excellent wonderful
variable. So just by creating this new and the class name memory allocated but
this memory doesn't have name to it so that I cannot access it. So tell me I
have to create a variable E1 equal to compiler not compile. Come on. Come on.
Compiler not compile. Not compiled. You created a memory trying to store that memory in the variable called what? E1.
Did you create that even anywhere? No. Suppose suppose if I write I1 equal to
something called say X= 10. This 10 is nothing but new example. I'm trying to store 10 in the X. Allowed or not
allowed? Not allowed. Compiler throwing where is X variable? Tell me X variable must be of what type int type. Why
10 is of type int. Tell me tell me tell me even variable meant for store what? New example. This new example memory of
what type? Example. So what I have to write here? Example. Example E1 equal
to. Now program compiler. Yes. Everyone understand? Tell me. Example
even required or not required not required. I can write new example but
what is the problem? I cannot access the members available for for that purpose what I required variable. Then once you
create variable now system dot out dot print ln of what I should write now tell
me E1 dot uh E1 do I1 uh next what I write?
E1 dot D1. Next what you write? E1 C1 C ch let's see compile or not yes executed
or not yes output coming 5 6.78 tell me I want read next value what is
the next value la can I write just LA if write just LA
are this 89 coming or not coming not coming not coming not coming not coming
what will come reference will come reference will come no I want value. What should I write? E1 dot LA of zero.
E1. L of 1. E1 E1 for going into this
object. From there LA for going into this object. Are you following? Uh next. Now I want read S1 E1. S1 directly we
will get her. No problem. Control one control.
Understood? Uh now tell me can I write just E1 here?
Just even if I write just even all values available in this memory will come up will not come not come like
yesterday here also we will get only reference example at the rate we will get okay all
people understand so tell me for storing multiple values of different type I
should use class or I should create class create class what the syntax for creating class name variables class name
variables after creating class What should I do? Are the values automatically read and print? No. What I
required I have to I have to provide memory them and access them. All right.
Continuation. Have you completed this comment
to access above example class variables
to read or modify
their values? First of all,
we must provide memory to those variables
to access above class variables
to read or either to read or modify their values. First of all, we must
provide memory to those variables.
To a class variable to a class variable, we can provide
memory in two ways. Number one
by using static keyword
number two by using new keyword.
The static keyword
cannot provide
memory to all variables as one group.
the new keyword.
So tell me sir the group memory or multiple values memory is technically called what?
Object. Now
is called object. Hence,
after creating a class
for accessing its members,
we must accessing its members as one group.
We must create object of this class
by using new keyword
as below. What the syntax? class name
variable name equals to new
class name parenthesis semicolon then system dot
outprint ln variable name dot
member class name
Are people are okay with this heavy explanation or you want me to shortcut?
You want me to directly explain or step by step? You want to go? Comfortable? Yes sir.
Anything
please share to me any anything you are feeling either happy you are feeling sad
you are feeling okay any of your feelings you can share it to me no problem I'll accept I'm always happy to
listen your concerns so don't whenever you are facing some
problem don't talk to your friends talk to me directly sir this what you are explaining I'm not Happy you change like
this. Oh, okay. I will change. Okay. Now
I told in the first demo class I'm not your faculty. I'm your
brother. Okay. Now I am your family member. when
you're facing problems you are telling to your family member or not
I'm your bad brother so any problem you can come and talk to
me happily sir I cannot talk you directly okay that's why I gave you my number send WhatsApp message so that who
are you I don't know but I'll come to know your problem so I'll solve in the next class that's it
so anyway whatever the way you want oh so no So directly I cannot send WhatsApp. Okay. You have my Facebook
page, Telegram, everything is there. Whatever the possible way, email ID is
there. Javahar Krishnathegmail.com. Any way possible way you can let me
know. Okay. Next below program shows
creating
example class object and reading its values reading
and printing and please don't miss the classes until
our batch completed one class also don't miss
just maintain consistency enough I will make you experts in Java uh one class
also don't miss that's my request every class uh sir you even you don't
practice also no problem but don't miss classes
I have that much capacity make you understand
place always code part in the
exams. Read notes
after coming back from exam. Whatever the notes I uploaded, read that notes. You'll understand and ask me if you have
any questions. Continuation.
Thank you Caitana.
Huh? Completed. Write down write on this class.
I hope you know what the meaning of this line. It prints one empty line.
It prints one empty line. Here you write what is printed here. Example at the
rate 10 10. Our object reference is what? 10 10.
Example at the rate 10. JVM printing its own number. We are choosing our own number.
Will you practice this example today? Tomorrow class we are developing projects. I want you feel so comfortable
in tomorrow class. Three projects we are developing tomorrow class. And read the values and print
E1. I1 5 D1 6.7
CH
A L A what is printed you copy from your system
L of 0 8 L of 1 9 S1 hurry
tomorrow definitely you will enjoy and you will get Happy tears. Tomorrow bring some kache also.
Okay. Now
I didn't explain class object memory. Tomorrow I'll explain class object. This line is also background memory created.
Now so that memory how it is created how look like I will show you in tomorrow class. Today memory not required.
Okay, I'm starting new core java batch evening 5:00 p.m. But offline classes
will be not in Amir. It is in KBHP branch you know where is KBHP
Kokat Palpali housing board next to this one here metro station there Namir metro station after two metro stations
again it's around 15 minutes journey from Amir P to Kokali housing board if
it is a metro train if you choose it takes only maximum 5 to 10 minutes not more than that maximum 5 minutes 5
minutes no one or two yeah 10 minutes if it is a bus it will be more 5 minutes, 15 minutes. Okay. Inform to your
juniors. If it is a online, no need to come anywhere from your house only. You can join. Okay. Now, right. Inform to
your juniors and your friends who are missing last classes, they can join the next batch.
Close main method. Close class.
What the name of the Java file? uh main method class name you ought to
take. Okay, test08 class. Thank you. That's all for today class. Hope you all enjoyed today class
to new keyword to which class object should be created.
Monday 7th 7th Thursday next
Startup
difference.
Ed
by default create back. You have to stop back file creation preferences file
check.
Okay. Here int and car are keywords that's why they
are coming in blue color string is a
class predefined classes are showing the red coloring
multiple values
exeute You want to store these values as part of class not as part of
provided individual
static Okay.
Dian Del are sending that image. What is that image man? Are you there?
What is that image?
Inner classes in classmate.
memory comp.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah, I will upload this progress man. You can copy from there. Okay,
I'll upload all the points whatever explained today.
Okay guys, see you all tomorrow. Bikes.

