ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Last class we are trying to understand
Yeah, last class we are trying to understand how to store multiple values by using class. Correct? How to store
multiple values by using class. Okay. First what we have done? We have created
a class. Inside class, I have created required number of variables. Assigned
the values to them. Then further we have created another class main method.
Wherever I want to use these values. Wherever I want to use these values
for accessing them. We have created object. What is the statement is called?
Object. Which class? Object. Example. Class.
example class object creation. Then what happened here?
Here uh all non-static variables
all non-static variables available in class example class example are provided
memory. Correct my point? Then in this line
whatever you are seeing in new example is it a normal statement or memory creation statement.
Can you visualize the memory background here? Uh what is the memory box memory? A circle memory. Let us try to
understand memory today.
For better understanding let me use a slide.
uh I want to store multiple values of different type. So first what you have to do you must create a class inside
this class can I directly specify values like this? No we have to declare required number of variables and store
values. Then once the class ready what is ready memory ready only data type
ready by using data type int can I store value? No. By using data type double can
I store value? No. By using data type I have to create variable. What type of
data type? Example is is it a primitive data type or reference data type? Reference data type. Reference data type
is meant for storing one value or multiple values. Multiple values means I
need to create object. Once you create object with multiple values, this object I have to store inside a variable. So
now what I have to require variable and object. Once you create the class with required number of variables in order to
access that class and its variables and store values and read values, I need to create variable and object. Variable is
of what type? Example. Object is what type? Example. That means I need one
more class which is executable class. In this class I have written just a new example. What is created? Variable
created. Object created. Object created. Object means will it provide memory to
all these variables or not? Yes. After providing memory, you want to leave it or you want to access the values. For
accessing values, what is required? Name to this object. Suppose uh now I came
onto the onto the road. Then I'm just walking on the road. You want to talk to me? I should have a name. Now if my
mother forgot to give the name, can you call me? No. So here one object is available, one thing is available. That
thing should have name because there is no name I cannot access. Now I have provided name to it. Example E1 equal to
new example. All people understand. Uh tell me at this line number example E1
is it object or variable? New example is object. And tell me what
is the memory structure will be happen background. First whenever I run this class test control come to the main
method. Inside main method what is there? Example E1 equal to new example. Carefully observe here example E1 equal
new example has three parts totally. Number one example E1. Second part new
example. Third part assignment. Understand? Totally how many parts are
there? Three parts. Three levels of execution. This line executed at three levels. First one example E1 variable
creation. Second new example object creation. Third assignment store this
object reference inside E1. Let's start understanding. First step example E1.
What happened? Because of example E1. E1 memory created. Even memory circular square box because it is a variable.
Super. It is a variable. Because it is variable memory box. Then new example means what? Uh new example means what?
Object. Object means what? Circle. Excellent. Circle. Uh circle means object. There should be
a base address. Now every object will be starts with some base address. What is our address? We assuming 10. JBM
generating its own number. We are choosing what? 10. Uh then tell me inside this object. Listen carefully.
Listen carefully. What is executing now? New example is executing now.
New example is executing. What new keyword will do? New keyword will go to
example class. You already told now go to example class. Then in the example
class, new keyword finding the variables top to bottom.
New keyword will find variables top to bottom. How many variables are there? Five variable. All these five variables
memory allocated in the class or in the object. Come on. Come on. In the class
or in the object. Repeat once again. If the variable is static, memory created
in the class. If the variable is non-static, memory allocated in the object. The variables declared inside
the class are provided a memory in two places. Number one either in the class
directly or inside the object in the class when it will be provided memory if
it is a static in the object when it is provided memory if it is a non-static
tell me all these five variables are static or non-static non-static variables memory allocated inside where
object come on everyone how many types of variables I can create inside a class two types static variable and non-static
variable currently these five variables are static or non-static. Why non-static? Because there is no static
keyword. Okay? Because there is no static keyword. Why you are not a Python student?
You didn't take Python admission. Why you are a Java student? Because you taken a Java admission. Uh the variables
created inside a class without static keyword is called what? Static non-static variable. Who will provide a
memory to the non-static variable? Data type or new keyword? New keyword. New keyword will provide a memory to all
these five variables in a class in object in object in a jig location or
continuation location. Continuation memory location. Now here five memory
locations are created continuously by occupying memory based on the data type.
Uh first memory for uh I1, second memory for T1, third
memory for uh fourth memory for L and fifth memory for S1.
Why string for more memory? Oh, one minute. Let me decrease. You will ask too many questions.
Okay. Huh? Uh then after memory allocated all these variables are now named I1,
D1, CH, LA,
S1 up to now understand.
First step example variable memory created. Second step new example new
keyword creates a object circle created with a base reference 10. Then the new
keyword is going to example class to find the non-static variables. Top to bottom, first line to last line. It
finding the non-static variables. It found five variables. Went to the object. In the object, five variables
are allocated and the named with the given name. Uh next step is what?
After variable created, next step is what? Storing values. Now JVM, I mean
new keyword will store values. New keyword will store these values inside
these values inside the variables. And tell me I1 is a variable of what type?
Int variable contain value directly now. Yes. Uh D1 is a variable of what type?
Primitive type. Okay. What type? Primitive type. Primitive variable contains the value directly. Uh ch is a
variable of what type? Primitive type. Primitive variable contain the value directly.
Now next la is a variable
of what type? It is a primitive type or reference type. Why reference type?
Because it is array. It is a reference type. Tell me referenced variable will store value directly or object
reference. Object reference. That means will it store directly open bracket closed
bracket 8 comma 9 here? No, no, no. This is a wrong. Then what happened here?
What is this open bracket? Come on. Last class. What is open
bracket? Array object. What is open bracket? Array object. Uh tell me first
JVM background creates what? Array object. Which array object it is?
Long array object. Which type of array object? Long array object with how many
locations? Two locations. What the index number? 0 1. Both locations are of what
type? I long array. How it contain interlocations here of what type? Long.
What the? The first value eight. Second value 9. Tell me is it a object or not?
Object contain its own one reference. Right? Already first object reference is 10. Second object reference. H. Come on
guess first one second two okay 2020 now
this open bracket closed bracket this object reference is what 2020 2020
stored in LA uh tell me now what is coming into LA 2020 will come here and
store everyone understand right uh so tell me
whenever you have seen variables in the class I have to store values what values
I'm storing based on the type of the variable. Primitive variable directly values are stored. Referenced variable
value not store object not store first of all outside separately object memory
is created and its reference is copied into the variable. Understand my point? Tell me a object can contain another
objects. Yes, your bag can contain bottle. Bottle is also object or not? Uh
your bag can contain lunch box. Uh lunchbox is also object. A object can
contain other objects also. Only we should having what? Reference. Tell me now S1 variable. S1 variable. What type
of variable is S1? Primitive variable or reference variable? String is a class.
Class is a reference. Then can hurry directly stored here? No. Cannot be
stored. Uh hurry will be stored separately. What is the meaning of this double code? Double code means object.
Which class? Object string class string class object means circularly created with reference is what 30 30 object 30
uh what is this name of the class object string array object class object string
class object string class object which contain internally what har h a r i
everyone understanding what do you understand wrong answer
string object it is a object. Now can object directly contain values? Object
is meant for containing values or containing variables. Object is a collection of variables. Uh
string class object can store data directly. No string class object
internally store data by using carry array. Which object? Carry array because
number of characters if you want to store what you required array. Which type of array? Car array. Because string
object contains what? Characters. Uh now tell me now here inside string object
JVM creates one object. What is that object? Car array object with how many
locations? Four locations. With how many locations? Four location. First location
contains what? Single code H. Second location contains single code A.
Third location single quote R. Last location single quote I. What is this object? string class object internally
contain hair array object hair array object
now 3030 will be stored in S1
people understand what is happening huh so a class can contain multiple variables are of different type if you
want to allocate memory for all these variables of the class as a one group I have to create object should declare
them as a non-standard and create object by using new keyword. If you want to provide each variable individual memory
in the class itself, then declare them as what? Static. If you declare the variables either static or non-static,
then the memory allocated each variable is initialized based on the type.
Primitive variables directly contain value. Reference variables not contain value directly rather it contains what?
Object reference. A object can contain other objects also. Here the twist is
string object generally people will say yes s1 variable created directly hurry
will be stored people are teaching that is wrong uh string is not a primitive variable hurry characters will not be
available directly separate string class object is created inside string class object people are teaching you directly
characters are writing that is also wrong because object is not a collection of values cannot contain data directly
the data is available inside variables only. So string class meant for storing
sequence of characters. If you want to store sequence of characters, we required what? Array. Which type of
array? Car array. Stringo class internally contains what? Car object. Clear my point? Huh? So finally uh our
new keyword job is completed. Now the new keyword Now the new keyword returns
the reference and store it inside S1. What is the reference? 10 10. Now the 10
10 stored inside E1 pointing to it.
So this one line example E1 equal to new example background create this much da
this much memory tell me as a students in your college you look at the object
create example new example object created created this is created. What is
the difference between my classes and your academic classes? Academic classes by heart how to create object using new
keyword how example one equal new example what happened background what is your number thank you sir understand
correct my point so there you don't have visualisation okay you you are driving your car
midnight amawasia night at 12:00 okay can you see anything on the road no
if car has a lights can you see everything yes it's amawasia our main least bother okay because we have lights
we have visualization so the problem in your academics last 22 years you are
learning the things without visualization what is happening background you never ask the question in
my in my classes I always teach you at a two levels number one what am I doing
what will happen background what am I doing programmer what happened background compiler and JVM being A
programmer any program you can write so that you can pass interview. Next what
happened background you are thinking like a compiler thinking like a JVM when you think like a compiler and JVM syntax
you understand memory you understand flow of execution understand correct output you will tell written test exam
100% you will pass all my students I used to guarantee them 100% pass in the
written test exam no doubt in that the question paper simple or complex list
because we are compiler JVM no tell Compiler feel anything tough? No. JVM
feel anything tough? No. That is how much tricky least bother because we compiler JVM apply the algorithm and
find correct output. You also applying algorithm finding output. When you feel something is a tough when will you feel
something is it tough? When you are using your brain in my class am I allowing you to use your brain? No. No.
No. No. No. What are you doing? Algorithm. Ah. Look at there. What is the statement? Example new example. What
is that statement? Object creation. What the algorithm for object creation? Three step. What the first step? Variable.
Second step object. Third step reference. Where you are using your brain. When you don't use your brain,
there is no pressure to your brain. Just you are applying algorithm. Next time one more line is coming again your brain
will using or applying applying. So there is no difficulty. Uh tell me
written test exam is how much complex? We don't know you know last batch one
student attended one interview he come back and told his happiness express his happiness. Sir I have written just now
one exam sir I feel everything is known points but my friend who attended ru
java from other faculty he command say sir pushin papri is very tough tougher
huh out of syllabus okay now very tough and out of syllabus where is tough where
is out of syllabus I able to answer everything where how because he is learning syllabus we are learning what
algorithms compiler and JVM algorithms we are learning so finally end of the
course completed as I promised you I'll make you programmer compiler JVL as a
programmer you are learning complete syllabus everything whatever there in Java everything complete syllabus you
are learning so you don't you don't feel something I don't know second point
compiler and JVM algorithms you are learning any question is giving you can easily answer and you never feel
something is difficult you never feel out of syllabus everything you feel I know as you don't know question stuff
provided you should participate. If you sit silently watching 100 days
you attend 200 days you attend one year you attend two years you turn
in class you have to reply to my question if you don't reply to my questions after going into room if you
don't practice the program as it is there are some students who are in a confusion they are going in a different
path class completed asking for can you suggest me one best book
huh The best book for core java is kjava by harrishna.
My book is allrounder book. You buy one core java book it contains only how to write program. You buy another book it
contain only interview questions. You buy another book it contain only JVM architecture. You buy my book everything
is there. It is all in one core Java with SEJP and JVM architecture including
project development. Everything zero to project development including interview
every step is there in our book. So don't refer any book not required. Second point first remove that from your
mind. Second some students yesterday also one student come and ask me from your class can you please suggest me one
best website to practice. I want to slap him like anything. First
you prepare the notes I given. First you buy the sentence. You should able to speak in Java confidently in the
classroom and outside of the classroom. Then only you have to go for practice. Are you following? Without knowing how
can you practice learn first. Clear my point? Uh tell me today onwards whenever
you see int1= 5 will you see the memory here?
Yes sir. No Maya where you created in Tai equal to 10 in the class the
variables created inside a class have memory of only declaration statement
no memory then the memory will be provided to the class variables if static is there or
object then static you use memory is there or object create memory is there static
individual memory object group memory this is what learning first you 10
years. Okay.
First you study then practice. Without studying you people are trying to
practice that's wrong. Whatever there in the notes everything should be in your brain. Okay. Uh so now this class
contains the variables no memory with this statement memory allocated. What is the memory structure? This is the memory
structure. Three levels you must be able to understand. Okay, open notes. Uh you want to copy this diagram or uh
can you write your own? Huh? One or copy? Uh some people copy one both.
Okay. Her
go to this line. Anywhere notes side you have space now.
No spacer. Then down you have space now. This line to this line you have space
right? No space. Then what is such a worst book you bought?
Why rule book? Why did you buy rule book?
Answer. What is your why you buy rule book?
Oh, in a straight line neatly notes will be look. Is it a English class? Then
it is a mass class. Java is a mass mass rule book. Why not book? Then why did
you buy? I told you A4 size paper book you have
to buy lot of diagrams you have to draw okay wherever your space you write uh
how many steps are there here three write on the box write on this line in box
one new example two
storing 10 10
Huh? I forgot to tell you. I can 100% guarantee passing you in written test
exam. What about next rounds? Next round is hand, mouth, mouth only.
In written test exam, hand, eyes, brain. Enough. But in next round, technical
round, you have to use your mouth. You have to speak in Java. If you don't practice in Java speaking, what I can
do, I cannot do anything. I can force you to write. I can force you to use your eyes. I can force you to use your
brain. But I cannot force you to speak. I cannot. If I force you tomorrow, you don't come to the class.
So change your mind. If you want to pass all rounds of the interview, you have to practice.
Uh write down. First up
example even write up wherever you have space you write and
you remember even da first.
Shall I try again? Better time waste. All right. First step example even
second step. Uh object creation.
New example. New example is second step. Because of new example object creation with the base reference 10
inside object. How many variables are created? Five variables.
Here look at here this da into two string place in box
I1 D1
CH L
Yes sir.
Next step, initializing values in variables. Storing values in
variables. Init storing is called what? Initializing
uh value five directly stored because primitive variable value 6.7
directly stored because primitive variable value single quot directly stored
because primitive variable
LA is the reference variable value directly not store separate object is created ated long array
with a base reference 2020 with how many locations? Two locations
0 and 1 with the value 8 and 9.
2020 story LA pointing to
Any
of you are seniors learned Java there in a hostel? Inform them. From Monday, I'm taking
three classes on Java 8 new features.
Okay. Outside in the market, people are charging 25,500 for Java 8 new features.
Last month I conducted workshop on Java at new features. Some students have joined the class and they were shared
their experience. After listening my class they realized that lot of content
they have missed even though they paid 2,500 extra fees.
Understood? And they were scolding like anything in the comment box to that institute saying that okay I paid 2500 I
missed the money time but now I'm getting more knowledge than what they have shared. So inform your seniors that
I'm taking Java 8 new features free workshop. Okay no need to pay single rupee. I am here to serve the students
community for getting more knowledge to get the job and to make themselves happy and make the children's future childrens
happy. Clear that's what my target so how future childrens can be happy tell
me how future childrens can be happy
read this slide
understood A father said to his son, "Be careful where you are walk where you walk." The
son replied, "You be careful. Remember that I follow in your footsteps."
If a father, mother is rich, automatically child is also rich.
Father, mother more knowledged. Child is also automatically more knowledge. Father, mother is a actor. Child also
actor, doctor, doctor, lawyer, lawyer.
MKkeshrishna following by the children's understood
if you study well practice well if you get a job automatically become rich then
your future childrens are also rich if you are living in gated community good
good ambiance you know uh one apartment you are living then automatally your
children's also enjoying that ambiance now so change your mind study Java well
Java will change your life past 22 years how you lived I don't know you don't
know but next coming 60 years of life is in your hand
how you are molding next years next 60 years will decide this next coming 3
months next coming three months March uh April May these three months will
decide your next career in June July More openings will be there June, July,
August. As per industry expectation from August more openings will be started. Up
to now IT industry in the recision. Slowly companies are coming out of recession and looking for recruitments.
So freshers no jobs experience little more jobs little jobs are there. Okay.
Few jobs are there. Coming August onwards we are expecting good number of jobs for freshers also.
Currently because of recession no jobs for all students not only Java, not only
Python to all student there are no jobs. There are two types of students are there. When there are no jobs they feel
it is an opportunity learning fast learning everything deep get ready for the job. There are other students are
there negative thought people, lazy people. They always future never they think they say h no jobs let me sit
ideal don't waste money don't waste time don't waste time they're really wasting time no jobs no jobs feeling that no
jobs no jobs no jobs they are not studying and finally when job openings
are started they have knowledge no they will come to the classes and started making faculty hurry complete first
complete first by completing first what you do outgoing outside
when there are no jobs you must feel it is an opportunity to you learn thoroughly spend sufficient time and
learn everything and get ready for your interviews. Clear my point right? So it is an opportunity for you. Your future
is your children's future. You study well get job and settle well your childrens will be happy. My father gave
me cycle. My father worked very hard. He a farmer. He worked very hard and gave
me cycle. Luxurious life. Now with the knowledge my father gave me with the
education my father brother gave me now I am giving better life than my life to my children.
Now with that study with that more more you know now education can he get more
rich life or not with his more rich life is the next generation will be more rich now so that's what you have to do now
work hard one person work hard you are work hard your entire family status will be changed so I am here to help you how
much you help yourself it is in your hand
uh So next one is what? String string
object is created. Listen carefully. I want to draw a new diagram here.
Again reminding inform to your seniors whoever completed Java tell them that I
am taking free workshop on Java new features which is very important. Coming
classes I'm going to take next version new features also. Java 9, Java 10.
Every week I will take one workshop for Java new features so that your seniors
who completed Java either from me or from other faculties they will also get benefited.
Listen new point I'm telling you for storing file in the class example we have
variable now for storing long array in example class we have LA variable.
Similarly for storing car array array object
inside string class also we must require one variable now that variable name is
value. Who will create memory to value variable? JVM automatically it will do.
What this object reference 30 then background of string object background
of string object background of string object par object is created. This is
what a car little difficult but don't understand accept it. Don't understand accept it.
40 40 with how many locations? Four locations. 1 2 3 with index number
0 1 2 3. First what is stored here? H
A
B
C sorry H A R not R I and now 40 40 stored here.
What was the comment, man?
This completely consider as word string object.
Now this is example object.
Uh this entire diagram is considered as example class.
No jobs. He commented negative people are there around us.
If you listen to negative voice you will get only full of negative one
on which video people are readily
I'm telling now social media becoming day by day two worst
one video or one somebody is trying to help to people immediately what the people do h negative comment throw one
negative comment disturb others Don't run behind. Negative.
You do your job that's it. What you want work on it. Okay. Don't worry about what other
people feel. You decide your life. When I was uh plan to come to the
teaching field, everybody said there is no opportunity in teaching field. Okay. You are screwing your uh you know career
be in development. Last 20 years I have been working in teaching field also development field
both I managing and become very famous faculty your generation don't know about
me much but old generation people know very much because nowadays uh there is
no there these are so many problems I don't want to tell all the points okay uh I can say that's a kind of kind of
small politics kind of thing okay olden days that's Java means only Har Krishna
Okay. So that much your seniors know about me very well. Uh nowadays people are slowly forgetting.
Uh come back. You decide your path what you want. 100% you put your efforts
you'll become number one. How many jobs you want in software industry? One job. For one job you try to work find the
network. Did you watch there was a movie called uh happy day? Happy happy days.
H happy days movie. H boys. Boys, boys,
his name Shankar Shankar movie boys in that in a temple one person is the
motorala. Okay. He used to call that one of the boy and say you go to this temple at
this time, go to this temple at this time, go to this temple at this time, you will get the prasadam.
Okay, he maintained one book you know right? And this person shocked and he
will finally he will tell one statement knowledge is well if you have knowledge no one will
stop you so improve your knowledge that's all okay other things least bother don't about don't worry about
other people comment just keep improve your knowledge uh everyone completed
don't listen negative until you reach your destination don't listen negatives
so tell me Here new example. Here we go for
uh what is this? First memory allocated for all five variables. First three variables are primitive directly stored.
Next three two variables are referenced. Objects are created and stored. Complete memory diagram is called example object.
Now everyone tell me I want to read values from the class. Read values of the class from the object.
Read values of the class from the object. What the name of this object? E1. So what I should write now here E1
dot okay E1 dot I1 E1 dot D1 E1 dot CH huh only people tell me what the meaning
of E1 dot if you want to come to this I1 I have to come to E1 E1 dot listen last
class we have used square bracket now what I'm using dot if you want to access
the variables available in the class object I must use dot E1 do I1 E1 dot D1
E1 ch E1 LA E1 S1 Next point if you
wanted to go into the array object listen carefully if you want to go into the array object I must use what square
bracket of index square bracket of index uh tell me how to come to the zero
location e1 dot la of zero e1 dot l of 1
understand now tell I want to go to string object. Everyone tell me is a string object, array object, a class
object, a class object. We'll use here square bracket. No. Okay, we will write
what directly dot. But remember you no need to write dot for string object. JVM
automatically will go into the string object. JVM cannot go automatically into
class object. JVM cannot go automatically into long array object or array object. But string JVM can go into
string object automatically. Sir, how is it possible to go into string object automatically? Coming classes.
Okay. Now I'll show you then how can I make JVM go into my class object also automatically. For that whatever done in
the string class. Same thing you have to do in your class also. That knowledge you don't have at this minute. String
object automatically will be printed. But array object not printed automatically. Your class object also
not printed automatically. Everyone understand? Right. So yesterday we have completed already this program. Up to
now can expect everyone understand? Uh so tell me finally I want to store data inside a Java program. How many ways we
can store? Three ways. Number one by using variable. Number two by using array object. Number three by using
class object. Uh tell me I want to store data by using variable. Primitive data
type I have to use. Okay. Should I create data type or directly user? Directly use. I want to create I want to
store multiple values of same type. I have to use array object. To create array object, I should create a data
type or directly use a data type. Directly use a data type. I wanted to store multiple values of different type.
Then should I uh should I create array of should I create class or directly use
class? First create class with the required number of variables based on the type of
the values. Then use this data type for creating variable and object.
Everyone understand? Next, how can we read values available in the array with the square bracket index? How can I read
values available in the class object? By using dot uh square bracket dot are they
operators? Are they separators? Separators, not operators. Don't pronounce them as operator. using dot
operator using square bracket operator don't pronounce them as operator they are just a separators or if you want to
call them as operators can be called no problem it's not a crime so with this we completed how to store data inside the
program and tell me what is the advantage of class I can store different type of values without any limitation uh
what the limitation how many values I can store
inside a class how many values I can store five word not a
How many variables you declare? Only five values I can store. Sixth value can I store? No. If you want to store values
inside a class, first of all, memory should be there. Now, how many memories you created? Five memories. Five values
I can store. Suppose if I create array with five locations, how many values I can store? Five only. Sixth value, sixth
value. If you want to store, not possible. See, if you want to store values, first of all, variable must be
there. How many variables? Those many values. Four variables, four values, 10 variables, 10 values. The class contain
how many variables now? Five. Then five values only we can store. So what is the limitation of the class? Class can store
only different type of fixed number of different type of values. As many
variables as you create. Then what is the solution to the class? Collection.
What is the solution? Collection. Uh first totally in a program how many ways we can store data? Four ways. variable
array object class object collection object collection object array list
hashmap did you did you heard these words array list object hashmap object collection object collection you cannot
understand at this stage collection will be the last chapter last we are learning at this stage only these three
approaches are sufficient hope you all understand now uh with this we completed this chapter look at this once again I'm
coming back uh once again I'm Going back to this diagram in my project I want to store
data. What data you want to store? Either one value you want to store or
multiple values you want to store or one object multiple values of different type
you want to store. Then what I have to use want to store single value or single object then I required which variable?
Single value primitive variable object reference variable intera reference
variable example E1 variable of what reference variable I want to store one
value primitive variable I want to store one object reference variable uh I want
to store same type of multiple values or multiple objects then array object I
want to store multiple primitive values multiple mathematical values array with primitive type I want to store One
class, multiple objects, create array with a class name. Next point, want to store different type of multiple values
and multiple objects, then you have to use what? Class. Clear my point. Please write down the summary point. Final
conclusion. Summary on summary on variable, array
and class. Summary on variable, array and class.
Summary on variable, array and class.
Write on this diagram.
If you confidently remember this uh chart, this table, this slide, I'm
telling you from Monday onwards, your level of understanding, thinking will be different. Today class, today
explanation is very very important for your next coming two months course. So
don't waste tomorrow time. Tomorrow is very important day for you. Right? Tomorrow
is a Sunday. Sunday is a Sunday.
Sunday is not a holiday. Sunday is not a rest day. Sunday is a revision day. Uh
listen carefully. Every weekend you have to plan like this from this weekend onwards
until you retired from your job. until you return from the job. You have to
plan like this because you are a software engineer. Saturday night
enjoy Saturday night movie plan movie go
outside first show or second show your wish okay now Saturday is a movie time movie
night Sunday don't wake up early
till your don't put any alarm till your body asking to wake up till that you
sleep then after wake Then
take one walk off. Take some time for one or one and a half hour walk. Sunday
is free now. No B one one and a half hour walk. Walking is very important at
least weekly once by okay. Walk and do small exercise. Play some games for two
to three hours. Morning. Go to playground 2 to 3 hours. Then by 9:00
come back and finish your tiff and all. 10 to 1 3 hours 10 to 1 3 hours you must
do revision on what you have done for last one week understand Sunday afternoon onwards go
outside roam on the roads know about Hyderabad know about your city what the
different businesses are running check once and then come early night back by
Sunday evening 600 6:30 come back and finish your generally go back to sleep and plan for next week. So Saturday
night, Sunday morning very important in your life. If you want to stay healthy,
stay planned, get success, then this plan you have to implement.
Healthy is wealth. You know in our childhood on the school boards we write
health is your wealth. I don't understand that time how healthy is wealth after becoming old I realized
uh one day I went to the hospital for some reason I have seen the parking slot
is three floors in one super speciality hospital parking
slot is three floors ground and each floor have a two steps of racks two
three steps you know car on car everything is filled my car parking no
space and how many patients are there in that hospital understand her
then I shocked and realized oh my god what happening in the world then I come
back and told the student because your unhealthy habits of eating
food chapat burger pizza
Chinese restaurant because of this your health is fully spoiled
okay uh So eat healthy food take care of it and completed
your health is well keep warming your body and now listen we are going for the
next most important next coming 45 minutes class is very important right now
real time examples or projects
real time
real time examples on data types.
Come on. Project development by using data types. Whatever you have learned up to now this
one month course let us try to put as a project.
Let me ask you a question. Have you developed projects up to now in
this one month? Yes or no? Okay. Tell me what is the difference
between project and program.
Program is part of project.
Okay. There is a small confusion a student's mind. People are feeling programming is different, project is
different. Both are same. If you write everything in a single Java
file, that is a program. If you separate them two to three programs, that is a project.
Project is a collection of programs. Huh. Second point, if you write a
program with normal names, demi names, example sample ABC, BBC, XY Z, then
there is a program. If you write same program with some real world project,
real world business object names, then we call it as a project.
Example class you have written you are accessing class example from class test
then two programs together is a one project in a in a first chapter you have written
class addition class subtraction access the class addition class subtraction
from the class calc uh that is called what three programs all three programs together is what one project so don't
expect project means a big you know 6 months 7 months code No no no no that is
a huge business example and this is small bj example okay now example size is changing but the project is a project
and now let's try to apply the knowledge you have learned example test on one thing look at here I'm taking nar ID
I'm taking narish ID project you go to browser and type narish.com one website is open or not in that website if you
carefully observe you have courses details number Two, faculty details.
Faculty details are there. Our our profile will be there. And third, we have students details, students
registration form also there. Uh that means nar website contain information
whose information, courses information, students information and faculty's
information, not only the stock. How many laptops are there? How many fans are there? How many paper bundles are
there? So lot of information will be stored in this website. Some information available to student, some information
available to employees, some information available to management. But this website contain all the details.
Everyone participate and tell me. When all the details are stored, if you want to store the details, I required
background one program. In that program, I required to create variables. Now, how
many variables I have to create? One or two are as many values I want to store. as many values I want to store. Then
where I should create that variables? Inside a method or inside the class? If
I create variables inside the method, are those variables reusable or not reusable? Not reusable. If I create
variables inside the class, are they reusable? Yes. So if you want to make
your variables reusable, you have to create inside a class. Okay. Next question I'm asking are those variables
must be same type of variables are different type of variables. Why? Uh suppose I am taking student student
details I want to store in this project. To store student details I am going to store student number, student name,
course fee, email, mobile, address then all these values are of what type?
Different type of values. to store different type of values I should create variable arena class object class object
to create to create a class object first of all I need one class now huh tell me in this project I have to create one
class with the what name student are you catching my point so uh what is a
project two stops of number one find which object you want to store whose values he
want to store find whose values I want to store student values Create a class called student. In the class student,
how many values I want to store? 10 values. How many variables? 10 variables. What type of values you want
to store that type of variables? Create a class with the variables. Tell me just by creating a class with variables. Is
that variable memory ready to store values? No. I have to create object.
When I should create object, just like a create creator. No. No. No. No. When a student is registering to our our
course, click on student. Then click on what? Store. Then this form is open. Enter the student data in the boxes and
click on what? Submit. The moment you click on submit background, our program should create what object. Everyone tell
me this front end screen, this UI screen is nothing but a main method class. Now
when I click on submit, what should happen? Execute the logic. To execute logic, what class required? main method
class. Inside main method class, what should I do? Create student class object. Student S1 equal to new student.
Student object is created and then store values in that student object.
Hello all people understand. Then later our D I told you there are three layers
of application. Remember UI, programming, database then store this data further inside database. Everyone
understand? Shall I answer now? Ready to answer? You understand? one floor ready to answer. Second student want to take
admission. Then what you have to do again click on store button. When I
click on store button, this form is again open. Which values are empty form?
Uh in empty form I'm entering the values of second student. Click on the submit
button. What should happen? Background again. Main method executed.
Uh what happened? Student S1 equal new student second time executed. Second
time executed and all the four variables memory one more time created or not? Uh
what is the advantage with the variables created inside a class inside class? How many times you declare variable? One
time. How many times providing memory? Multiple times. That's why Java is called dynamic programming language.
How many times you declare variable? One time. Suppose if I write student S1 equal new student one copy memory
created for all the four variables. In the next line if I write one more statement student equal to new student
new student second time execute means new keyword again we will go to student class again finding top two bottom four
variables allocate one more copy of memory catching my point when you go to
nar office you want to take admission one application form is giving is the
same application form giving to all student or separate application form the separate application form student s one
new Student one application form student S2 equal new student second application form student S3 equal new student third
application form student S4 equal new student fourth application form new student means one copy memory for all
variables available in the class that means one application form is printed in
that application form I store first student values second application form I store second student values what is the
difference in creating variables inside class inside method If I create variables inside method, how
many memories will be there? One memory. How many student values I can store? One student. If I try to store second
student values, first student values are gone. If I create variables inside a class, how many times we declare
variable? One time. How many memories I can provide? Multiple. As many as I
want. How can I provide? Every time repeat new, new new, new, as many times you repeat those many times. Everyone
understand? So tell me what is a project? A project is nothing but a collection of objects. For each object
you create one class. As many student objects you want to store those many student objects you have to create.
Understand the idea. Uh let us try to implement one this student project. Now right up develop a project.
Develop a project to create.
to create. RWO means
real world object. Object and thing. What you are seeing
real world object student in programming world
Mohitkumar. What is that image?
Mo Kumar.
Okay guys, let me remove him from the class. Already he left a wonderful
I called him. No, that's why he left.
Okay, let me send his details to admin and he will be permanently removed from
the batch. Okay,
online students remember when someone is sharing any links or images or anything
don't click them. Okay. Now don't click them because I gave everyone option. Some people show
their talent. I'm telling you now such a nasty worstminded people are day by day growing.
So don't click on that. Don't respond to that link. Don't do that. So they will they will catch your unnecessary
details. Okay. Now come to the point. Develop a project to create the real
world object student in the programming. First question you have to ask what is a student? student is a object. What is an
object? Object is a thing. I am an object. You are an object. Fan is an object. Light. Light is an object.
Whatever you are seeing in the world, that is a object. Uh come on everyone tell me. Online students, you also try
to answer.
What is this? What is this?
What is this? Remote. What is this? Marker.
What is this? Car keys. Okay. Now,
what is this? Mobile. Mobile. Okay. Tell me what are all
these? When I take individual thing, you can
tell the particular name. When I take all together, there should be one common name. Now, that common name is thinking.
What are the common name? Thing. All these are things. Thing. In a programming world that thing is called
what? Object. Understood? So what is an object? Object is a thing. You go outside. One bike you
found. Hey object. One car you say object. One bus you see object. One
hotel you see object. Everything. Look around you. You will find many
objects. Everything is a object. Point is clear. Next. I am teaching one
example in Java how to write how to bring real world objects in the programming world. You practiced then
tell me nana when you're walking on the road can you create a Java program?
Oh no you are going on a road you found one
bike can you write a program? Bike program you are going on a road one hotel phone.
Can you write a program? What program? Total program where program means all people are feeling in the system. Nor
babu system is only for testing where you have to write brain. Okay. In your
brain when you're going on the road you found hotel hotel class hotel H1 equal to new hotel. Uh you move
little bit forward one more hotel you can find. Now then you write one more class called hotel. uh this hotel to
that holder variable names are same but what is different values this hotel name
is amoga that hotel name is ganomea something okay uh this student name is
XY Z another student name is what ABC so what is changing from one student to
another student or one hotel to another hotel names are changing or values are changing values are changing that means
how many classes I have to create one class, one object, one class. Uh for
each hotel, I have to create separate object. Hotel H1 equal to new hotel is
values. Hotel H2 equal to new hotel. Second hotel value. Hotel H3 equal new
hotel. Third hotel values. Java programming language is easier, tougher,
only easier. Very very easy. Learning approach must be different. You
learn Java in your academics from the math point of view. That's why Java is very tough. C only you recreate it. C
language only you recreed in Java. But Java is meant for maths objects object.
That's why it is a object oriented programming thoroughly learn this program automatically started creating.
Now tell me when you go to hostel hostel owner you found he's giving food. Food is an object. Now food is an object.
Okay. Plate. Plate for eating plate. Food you are taking plate now what is a plate object you are calling a friend
mama bring your plate and glass we'll go for food now onwards what you have to speak
bring your where is your plate object where is your glass object bring your plate object and
class object let's go for it object everything is object then people look at
okay now shall I go for look at here whenever I'm asking to
create real world object in the programming world you must find multiple objects of this type student is a type I
have a first object hurry second object ballaya ballay my friend okayh so hurry
and ballaya you know when I'm using ballaya students are becoming more bal
okay okay that activeness coming in the people brain that's why know bal babu giving one shock to all the people so me
and my friend bal babu both I'm taking okay now uh whenever I find one object multiple objects of that type I found.
Listen sir carefully. Now once I found objects I want to create these two objects in the programming world. Uh
that means what? Creating real world objects in the programming world means I have to store their data. Simple. I have
to store their data. For that I need one class. Now uh inside class I need some
variables. Everyone understand? So first step is what? Identify one real world object. create that real world object in
the programming world by using class and by declaring required number of variables. Everyone answer by creating
this class student is hurry available in Java.
Yes sir. No by creating this bal babu. Okay. By creating this class is ballay
available in the program? No. Okay. By preparing one application form
soft copy in my computer is are you joining the narration? No. Just by
clicking on the store store button form is open. That means you are there in the Java. No. Uh just we created a soft copy
for bringing hurry and ballaya. So how can I bring hurry? By storing his values. How can I bring ballaya? By
storing his values. For storing his values. I need to provide memory to these four variables. Huh? Uh, how can I
create how can I create memory? By creating object. Where I should create object? In the main method. Where is the
main method? I have to create in the class student. No. Class student is a data type class. Where students are
available? In the college. Where students are available in the college. Create a class called what? College. In
the class college, create main method. In the main method, create student object. Student s1 equal new student.
Sleeping a very important point. And all people respond by creating class what is
ready? Soft copy application form soft copy ready. Uh then tell me by creating
object student s1 equal new student what is ready? Printed copy one copy printed.
Click on the print button one print button came. Tell me this print button will contain values of only memory s
only text box. Text box and memory only. Uh so just memory allocated. Everyone
tell by writing student S1 equal to new student is hurry available in Java? No. Is Ballaya available in Java? No. Next.
Student S1 new student is just empty application form. This application form
I printed. For whom purpose? Hurry purpose. Purpose.
Can I use the same application form? No. I need one more application form. Print copy. How can I get that print copy?
Excellent. Student S2 equal to new student for Balab. Uh tell me I have two
printed copy application form. Is this printed copy bring the hurry into the program? No. What should I do? I have to
store these values. Uh then tell me student S1 S1 variable created. New student new keyword will go to student
class. Allocate memory for all four variables. What is ready? Object ready. Just memory
ready. Everyone. Everyone student S1 equal new student creates
object or just memory. Just a memory. Just a memory. Just a
memory. Just a memories. Then why you are calling it is object.
New student creates object. Just a memory.
Just a memory. Then what is object? You do. Har is the object. Ballay babi is
the object. Are you following my point? Har is the object by Balai Baba is the object. This memory is not object. It's
just memory. Then why people are calling is object object? Wrong. People accepted wrong statements and
continue lifelong. Everyone understand what we call this
memory. Now it is a one copy memory created from the class. What? One copy
memory created from the class is called instance. What we call instance? I
repeat once again. The new keyword created a memory is called instance not
object. So then when it is called object sir answer I am giving you one
application form to you. What we call it as application form. After storing your
details in the application form is it called application form. hurry application form
as long as you don't store my details in that application form we just call application once I store my data hey it
is my application uh then one more application form printed that is what just application
that means empty memory you must call it as what instance after storing values
after storing values Oh, object. Now you have to call it as a
object. So new keyword creates instance for representing one real world object
by storing his values. Everyone understand? So new keyword created
memory is not object. It is just instant. Then there is a confusion in the market. So what is the difference
between instance and object? Sir, object is a real world thing. Har Krishna.
Okay. For bringing this harrishna real world object into the programming world, one memory you will create that memory
is called what? Instance. When this memory instance is called object after
storing the values before storing values, memory is instance. After storing value, memory is object. Why
object? Because it's representing that pillow. Uh next tell me now student new
instance means what is created? Come on. Come on everyone. Object
created. Instance created. Excellent. Instance is created and then after
uh after object is created. So the after we store Balabu values after storing Balabu values what will become now
object. Hope you'll understand now. So tell me to bring real world object into the programming world totally how many
steps we have to write? Four. Step number one identify real world object.
Create a class with that object type name. Tell me hurry is a object. Ballaya
is a object. What the type of hurry? Student. What the type of ballaya? What
is the common name for both the people? Student. I should create a class with ha ballayana.
Excellent. Student. Okay. Class student. Inside second step inside a class student we should declare number of
variables based on number of values and type of values we want to store. Understand?
previous program I have assigned values in this program I didn't assign values why
uh this class is meant for particular to hurry no particular to ballaya no common
to both hurry and ballaya if I assign values here 1.1 hurry course score java feed 3500 then what happened it become
specific to hurry it cannot become what bal babu object so I have to create class common to all objects of the type
student. So you should not assign values. Step number one, find out one object create a class by using that
object type name. Second step inside the class declare number of variables based on the type of values and number of
values we want to store. Save it with the type name student Java. Two steps completed. Then whenever I create class
student with required number of variables object ready object type ready
type means what? data type data type is ready. Then following by in its user
class, can I call college as a user class? College is using student for
storing the values of a student. In the user class, create what object instance.
Uh create a number of instances as many real world objects you wanted to store.
Second point understand I mean third step. What the third step in the user class? Create a new instance.
create new instance for the particular object. Fourth step, store the values of
this object in this instance. Then real world object hurry available in the program. So real world object creation
in the programming world is just a two steps. Create a class create instance. One more object. One more class. No, one
more instance. One more object. One more instance. New type of object employee.
Then uh another class instance. New type of object another class another object
that's it hope all people understand tell me object oriented programming easy or difficult what is object oriented
programming find one real world object create in the programming world how many steps two steps create class create
instance and I in the object oriented programming and tell me people who missed the today class because of
appointments they are going to lot of problems from the next week
And their trouble you know Java Java that word Java will be remain in their
mind forever. Tell me now you are going on the road now. You found a uh at the corner there
is a wine shop wine martella.
Our old generation wine shops will be end of the village where
institutes or school or temples are there their wine shop will not be there. But nowadays what happened?
Temple next wine shops schooler next wine shop. drug shop.
Yes or no? And you guys are encouraging wonderfully. Wow. Okay.
Uh tell me now you found a wine shop. Tell me how can I create wine shop? Class. Whenever you see wine shop what
you have to field two points class wine shop open bracket closed bracket
variables wine shop name brands available. Okay. Whatever you know right
no need. Huh. Then following by customer class customer open bracket closure
bracket main method you went to the first mine shop then what you write wine shop am wine shop equal to new wine shop
wine shop available you go a little bit nearer okay and then one more wine shop is there SRA wine shop what you do
one more instance wine shop SRA wine shop equal new wine shop tell me rabbi
do you need system To practice object- oriented programming not required system jamana over now slowly while walking on
the road only we have to create programs how many programs every minute one program you can create
it's your patiency every minute you take book into your
handh okay class book B1 equal new book write one more book B2 equal new book ah
pen So class pen open bracket closed bracket pen p1 equal new pen pen p2
equal new pen understand uh so you can create as many programs as you want per
day system is not required I never practice with the system but last 20
years I'm happily working in Java I always prepare programs with my brain
what write on this diagram
Or else uh let us try to write on this steps to create real world object in programming world
don't write summary right it's the main points not summary in previous batch first I explained then steps to create
real world object in programming
This a fifth step reading and displaying. Okay, already you know that these four steps new to you.
Huh? Completed.
Huh? Not also. This note is for compiler JVM.
Every statement we must read understand like compiler and JVM. It means we must
verify statement syntax and we must allocate memory for that statement
completed. Uh we will write code for this program
on Monday. Why Monday? So that people who miss today class must
cry now. We should make them cry and we should enjoy. Monday we are developing three
projects and two I'll give assignment and next week classes are
logical programming. Next step we complete our first step. What the first step?
storing data. Okay. Second step is what? Performing validations and calculations. Third step
is what? Controlling flow of execution. So next week we have to complete
operators and control flow statements. So maybe probably Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, Saturday 4 days. So four days and Monday and Tuesday we need to learn
uh three projects on this data types I mean projects and following by reading
data from keyboard also I have to teach you one day by using scanner we will read the data from the keyboard okay now
so Monday Tuesday projects plus reading data and next four days we are going to
read performing validations and calculations thank you that's all for today class and this fourth week. Uh can
you please tell me this one week, one month of classes helpful
to all people? Are able to come to the next stage that your Java become easy for you? Now all
people got confl and again I'm telling you please try to
share your concerns to me. If you feel anything difficult, if you feel anything happy, sad, anything, any feeling, share
it to me so that accordingly I can work. Don't discuss your problems with your friends. Your friend cannot say solve
your problem. He will increase your problem more. Remember that. Okay. Thank
you. Happy weekend. Practice and come.
WhatsApp time is 4:30 p.m. I will share the details in your Google classroom.
But for us to understand in which order objects created we are following the number
keyboard employee numbers employee names
will not understand for seniors who completed Java
10 5:00 4:30 4:30 Monday
Monday Tuesday
offline I'll share I'll share okay Dian
darian uh today is the last class for you ma'am Monday onwards you will not get the access to this class you are
going to be remote terminated your admission from
Dian today is your last class. Monday onwards your admission is cancelled.
Are you there Dian? Uh he left Monday you will not get
access. Next
Give me your address. New example is the object of example.
Then example
mathematical 10 + 20 is not mathematically valid.
It's a expression. Yeah, you can use equal to 10 + 20.
10 + 20. It is an expression. It is not a value. It is an expression.
Okay.
No.
4:30 evening 4:30 from Monday
same
class Java file test test Java.
Next
Java should be completed.
Arvin Java file name must be main class name.
Then we put static in and we have to run the program. So we have to write example
not required. Uh no if we want to call the static direct class example I
example do I when I run the program I
wrote example semicolon and as do end
comp doesn't contain any value now. Huh? But
uh yeah, example one. Yes sir. Example E1 equal to something should be
there. Assignment must be there either without not allowed to use.
Yeah. Even variable if you want to use variable you should have some value here either new example or null default value
null should be there. Then E1 I1 you can access when if it is a static if it is a
non-static not possible. I want static.
If I if I put in with uh static with end. So we have to write uh static
example. Why static example I give? I want to run the program with very hard right. Static should be
allowed only at class not inside the method. Inside method you cannot use static.
If we want to run the no you not if you want
static in a= 10 and we run example
very static here no static yeah no static but we are providing the memory with static want to
run the program with providing static memory not a new memory So I uh I write example a= 50
and in this if I want to uh provide static memory. So I have to run example
int. Example in why why you are bringing in int because we are providing only in
memory only to the int is for declaring variable. Here you are declaring variable accessing variables for
accessing what required identifiable name is sufficient. example do I1
graph do I huh that's what you did here now yes sir yes you already provided memory you are
accessing memory again you don't write int here example int means what there is wrong syntax again after dot only name
should be and then when I compile the program
example do I semicolon so I wouldn't be able to compile
come again example dot dot I1 After after compile it's showing
after what you already sample I1 uh uh example
I1 in I1 s I1 what is I1
I1 where you created I1 you are accessing this class which is created another class where is the path
how can compiler come here to there say uh so we have to write example do I1
Yes. Example, no complement
example. What the meaning of that statement? Yes sir. What is the meaning? What you are doing
by writing example I1. What are you doing? Accessing variable. Then what are you doing?
Where is yes understand? If just example a1 what the
meaning of it? No meaning that's why throwing error. You should write either for printing or for modifying or for
reading. So what you're doing doing nothing just you written 10. Am I allowed to write only 10? No. You have
to write 10 by assigning to the variable then allow. So when you write one statement it should perform one
operation. If write just example do I1 it is performing no operation. So compiler throw error.
If I write both example I1 and example I
first example. Even what are you doing? Accessing after that what are you doing?
Printing. Then where you are printing the next line? Huh? Yes. In that what are you doing? You are
standing outside. What are you doing? Just standing not allowed. You are come inside the classroom seat. Allowed
both I will do. They not allowed here not allowed. Understand?
I write a program by myself.
Please know
Google search
Right.
You know the start.
Example
class leading example class are you there?
Open
a
The code Energy.
argument. File path
end.
AJ
Arind you can see your screen ma'am.
For what purpose you want to share your screen?
M1 is non-static method. Now M1 is a non-static method. How can I access non-static method? They should
have memory, right?
Non-stic memory will not be there, right? Arvind
save Java file name with main method class name.
Save Java file name with main method class name not with example 01.
Okay.

