ript


Ah right. Good morning everyone.
Hope you all completed yesterday given assignment.
Okay, some of you have shared your code to me.
Uh, observe here the question I gave you. Develop a
project to create real world object bank account in programming world with values
bank name branch name if account number account holder name balance here the
question is very clear what is the name of the class you have to choose
bank name bank account right I clearly mentioned the question create a real world project to create uh develop a
project to create real world object bank account most of you people created whatever the name as you like
you are here to write a program for customer given requirement your own wish
that's what I'm telling from the first day but you people written as you like
some people choose name as a account some people choose a name as a bank okay so you should not write as you like
apply some common sense it's very important you have to improve your common sense what I have asked that only
hard to write. You should not write as you like. Uh next is there any space in the between? No. And it is a noun. Noun
means every word first letter should be capital. Title case you have to write bank account B capital letter A capital
letter. Second inside the class bank account. I have to create how many variables? Six variables. Uh variable
names you chosen as you like. I already gave the variable name clearly. Huh?
Variable name must also follow title case. Title case but first letter should
be small. First letter is small and should follow title case. Okay. All people written all letters are small.
All letters are capital. Okay. Now uh that's wrong. You have to
choose variable name B small letter N capital letter. Bank name branch B small
letter N capital letter. FS it is a one word so all are small letters and next
account number A small letter N capital letter account holder name if you want
write fully account holder name A small letter H N capital letters okay and
balance one word be small letter you have to follow this coding standards then only you'll be considered as a Java
developer if you are not following these coding standards and you are writing as you like then you will be called as
amirate developer So don't be like am I pay developer improve your standards if you don't
improve your standards you cannot get job your writing style by seeing writing style interviewer will not accept you as
a employee okay uh next question what the type bank name contains what all
letters uh so string branch name all letters string ifs is a alpha numeric
alpha numeric data means letters and digits will be there so it should be a
inter No, people are confused. It is a string. Alpha. Alpha means what? String.
Alphabet. If you if you have used at least one alphabet, then it is what? String. So, IFS is also string. Account
number. Accounter name balance. Account number long. And account number when
you're writing your suffix with L because it's a 12digit number. Next account holder name
string. Balance double. Some people taken float. Float should not use
double. we have to use. Okay, tell me now from the primitive data types in the
project maximum what data types will be used? Number one int number two long
number three double double hair boolean these five data types only we will use
maximum understand primitive data types I'm talking about primitive data types from
the referenced data types number one string number two I'll tell you okay and
number two your own user definfed classes okay string and userdefined classes we are using for storing our own
data so totally these seven data types are mostly we use in our projects. Clear
my point? So try day by day by day improve your thought process and
standards. So don't behave like a you know still college student and don't
take it like light today not study tomorrow tomorrow not study day after tomorrow it's not good
okay have you all completed yesterday assignment shall I check your notes okay
how many of you completed raise your hands okay good not completed I'll check your
notes now if not completed if not accept I'll throw you out from the class raise your hand fully raise your Friends, half
half half completed. Uh what is the problem? Not completed.
Today's option.
Okay. changes
7:30 to 9 and
Okay, boys are busy. Girls, why you guys not completed
class? example
every day I'm telling you today class is depending on yesterday given assignment
why you are waiting there
what should I do now
problem. If I cancel the class today, then the
people who completed assignment, they are losing. If I continue today class,
people who not completed assignment, they will not understand today class. And these people will go outside and say
arrishna teaching very difficult. I don't understand.
How much time it will take to complete yesterday assignment?
It takes time only for you to write. How much time did I ask you to do in system?
From the day I'm saying only hello world program only system. After that no system only notes
while you are traveling you can write uh you came to the class at 9:00 a.m. Today
I start the class by 9:15. What you did this 15 minutes
yesterday assignment not completed. Let me try to complete now. At least this 15 minutes did you try? Did you ask your
friend did you complete yesterday assignment what you have written?
No.
At least this 15 minutes you can complete the assignment.
This course is for my sake, for your sake. Then
there are so many reasons are there to excuse to escape. If you're finding the excuses then you
never get success. You should find a way to complete the
task. I not completed today task I have to complete. How can I complete? Find a
way. Don't tell the excuses. Even you are dying also you have to
complete assignment and die. That's it.
You have to tell to hey wait wait wait wait I have one assignment to complete let me finish it now you take me no
problem you given one assignment that means you have to complete at any cost you have to complete you should have
that fear tomorrow I don't understand if I don't complete today assignment
tomorrow I don't understand there is something behind that program that's why I give assignment otherwise I don't give
no so still you people are behaving like a student that's a bad behavior
students college days are over student days are over now it is your career change your attitude take it serious
I didn't give you 100 programs give only one program that two two programs already explained just copy paste only
so take it serious show interest
online students anyways I cannot check you you completed or not completed. Okay.
So take care of yourself. I will share the program. Okay.
All the people verify your program with my program. Okay. After going through
check your program with my program. What are the changes I written? You written and which is better you just implement
it. Understood? Uh okay. Today we are discussing Okay. Actually
next topic I have to take in this chapter only. Chapter 5.4 into four
literal and types of okay let me write directly types of
literal don't write don't write types of literal and u
Java 7 new features
Java 7 new features Okay,
this is the chapter we have to learn. Next topic, next we have to learn one more topic.
Chapter number 5.
Here we need to learn character set. Character set you cannot
understand. Let me take a type conversion,
casting, promotion. Okay, type conversion, casting and
promotion. So this is the topic here today. And also we have to learn one more topic chapter number 5.6 Six
character set. There are two character sets are there. ASKI and uni code.
Ask and uni code. Okay. Uh these three topics not urgent to learn. Understood?
In the sequence I have to go to these three topics to cover but these three topics are not urgent to learn. Now I
can teach you these three topics in the coming classes. But for list purpose I am adding here. Okay. And I will also
upload material here and in your free time try to write that notes also in
your notebook. Later I will explain everyone understand that I will explain you. I will upload the materials. Uh
it's up to you. If you want to write notes write notes otherwise just let it be there. Okay? Because just by seeing you can understand all required topics
already covered in the data types. 10 is a water type. 10 is what literal of a water type in 10.5 is a literal of what
type double single quot is a literal of what type double quotes ABC is a literal
of a water type string. I have completed already explanation just notes part and
one or two entry questions are available. That's it. So I'll share the notes here and you can just go through
once and if you feel to write notes write notes otherwise leave it. Okay. Now, right now, let me go to the next
chapter today. New chapter. Chapter number six. Right. Reading
reading runtime values. No need to leave any page space.
Reading runtime values.
Reading runtime values in bracket RRV shortcut.
Reading runtime values RV.
Okay, first let me explain with a program and then we'll go for chapter.
Now look at here I'm taking one program called addition already know this non nonpoint only I'm
taking
addition now tell me class addition I want to add two numbers. Tell me the
code. Int= 10. Uh
in B = 20. Huh? In C = A. Oh, wonderful. Why I have
taken int data type? For creating a variable. I chosen the
data type int for creating variable for storing what type of value? Integer.
Okay. Then why have taken here C variable of type int
for storing result? Tell me a plus b. What you are storing in the C variable? In the variable C are storing A plus B
are the result coming from A plus B. What is this? Plus operator. Plus is a
operator. This operator generate one value that value is what type A B
combination type A is a combination of what type in int plus in is of what type
in that's why I choose an int variable remember because these points are coming in the next chapters oh okay now I'm
trying to display here result colon plus C save it saved now I want to compile
this program who asked me to develop this project This is a project. Okay.
Don't feel one just a simple program. Yeah. This is a simple program. Ask me I develop as a project. One class is also
a project. Now tell me I develop one project. Okay. Who asked me to develop this project? One client. One client
asked me to develop this project. I charged 1 cr for developing this project.
Assume. Yeah. Okay. Uh 1 cr. How you assume? No problem. Okay. I charged 1 cr
for him to develop this project. Then will I give source code to the client or executable class?
Executable class. Is the source code executable or dot class file executable? Dot class. Okay. Open command prompt. I
want to compile. Open command prompt. Go to D drive your folder FSJD and uh new
chapter RV. Oh, we are in. Okay. New week.
Are you writing uh uh summary of every week?
End of the week what I ask you to write summary. No
my dear gajisuh everything you forgot. I know and I told you every program compile in your system
find what are the possible compile time errors. I told you two things. Maintain the list of compile time errors and
maintain every week revision. What I learned summary points what I learn in this week. What I learned this week,
week 1, week 2, week three, week four, week five, five weeks. By end of this week, five weeks completing. So what you
have learned in this all five weeks you need to have summary. Okay? Now otherwise you will not remember what you
are learning. You will forget. So maintain one book to list of in question 10 10 rupees small books will be there
you know buy the 10 rupees small book or 20 rupees small book you buy and then in that book two books you buy 10 rupees 10
rupees or 20 20 rupees one book for all the in compile time errors another book
for maintaining the summary points if these two books are there with you wherever you go you can take now small
pocket book only right you can take wherever you are going if you're if you are there in the
around 15 minutes to 20 minutes you are traveling instead of looking at the passengers who is coming who is going
you can open that book and read uh when you're going weekend some you know outside okay then there also in a free
time instead of looking at other people you can spend the time to read that revision uh you are going to hometown
almost you take you know 10 hours in the 10 hours you can revise so make Java
available with you in whatever the possible way clear my point so that by
end of the Course completed 3 months you are with Java again you no need to do revision for the interview uh 3 months
completed core java completed yes I'm ready for the interview ask any question ask that way you'll be there again after
course completed revision days sir 2 months you give me sir okay the the days are over buddy uh so please do revision
on every week now open the command prompt hope you remember how to open command prompt open the folder and type
here cmd command prompt is open with the path clear screen why you are using
command prompt sir why you are not using edit plus edit plus for developer command prompt for client now who is who
are you know client development one cr you take and developed now I'm compiling java c edition java compiled dotclass
file is generated we are testing whether it is working or not java edition who are you now developer compile executed
output coming as per expectation over now what you will do you will send this doclass file to the client. Then client
will copy the doclass file into his system. Open the command prompt and now is started running Java
output ra. Uh now again run
again run again run. Who are your
client? Again run again run again run again run again run 100 times you run
200 times you run this program is a tumor program
brainless program static program it is always working with same values. Static
program means always working with same values. Client expectations are what?
Whenever you press enter, this program should ask me uh this program should ask
me what? Enter first number. Enter
second number. Uh here your result. Yes or no? Uh tell
me have you developed the program like that? No. Then this program is what program? Static nature program. Are
these kind of programs accept in the real life? No suppose let me take ATM all the people are ready to feel where
are you in ATM machine you are not in ATM ATM center okay ATM
room in front of you ATM is there uh ATM is directly giving money to you asking
your card insert card insert after inserting card it is reading your card details and display
message hi Krishna prove you are Krishna how it is asking prove you are Krishna
enter pin number enter pin number then it is validating that pin number valid or not if you valid then ask giving the
options menu is giving menu and asking what option you want withdraw how much money you want to withdraw 5,000 5,000
not d sound coming uh after counting the notes it is pushing the notes to us and taking and leaving by forgetting card
by forgetting card that's why nowadays what they're doing uh giving money and
holding that money tightly and giving a message take your card first. Okay. After taking card money is
releasing you know that uh so first you take card then money is giving otherwise you are forgetting the card and bank is
every time printing the new cards and sending it's becoming problem. So finally what you understand if you observe that ATM it is asking you give
inputs and executing logic for the given inputs. You take any real world example
uh take Amazon. Amazon has so many products. All products are sending to your home from the from the browser.
Products are dropping into your homes. No. Right. Uh you have to choose it, pay it and get it. So this is entire thing
is what every project is working with. Fixed values are user given values
at a compilation time or runtime. Uh the values coming into our program at
runtime are called what? Runtime values. So everyone tell me what type of
programs we have to develop in the project. Runtime values program should
not develop static values. What the meaning of static value in the source code directly
you typed directly you type and they are at the time of compilation directly
values are available in the class file directly values are available. So that kind of programs if you develop then
that is that is a wrong program. So what type of programs you have to develop? Runtime values program. Everyone
understand? Okay. Let me try to take one more example. This is mathematics based example. Okay. Now let me take one more
example. One more program I want to develop. What was the program you developed yesterday? Classes student.
Okay. I'm taking same program one more time. Class student. St student. Uh in the class student. In the class student
you have created int student number string student name. string course
an extra double fee double fee. Okay,
save it. And then you created a class called what? College. College. Uh then
inside the main method you have created student S1 equal to new student. Everyone tell
me this student is a application form. Come on. This line is representing one
application form. Can I visualize the background? Four variables memory created here with values or without
values. Without values. Now I want to store values inside it. Then how are the
code I have write? S1 dot SN equal to 1.1. Uh S1 dot same equal to HK. Uh next
S1 dot course equal to Java. Uh, next s1
fee equals to 3,500. Hey, 3,500. And now printing s1 object
details. S1 object details 1 2 3 4. Oh, okay. One
second 1 2 31 SN uh / T
plus S1. SN 1 2 3 4
S name course P.
Save it with the name college. Uh now this project I develop give it to
the client. Now the client is compile java C college Java. One error coming
variable this chart window coming up. Save it. Clear screen. Java C college
Java. Compile Java college. Uh remove this last
compile. And now look at that S1 object details what? One core Java 3,500. Now this
project class file I gave to the client.
Uh I gave it to the client. Then now tell me client enjoying Java college. Har Krishna created so far. Java
college. Second time also Har Krishna only created. Third time, fourth time, fifth
time all students are what? Okay. Not okay. Not okay. So mathematics
point of view and object oriented programming point of view. Whatever the style of program you develop, you should
read values from the keyboard from the user. How can I write? That is what we are learning today. Understand my point.
Right? Let me quickly show you the slides. I will upload after going to home read uh write down notes. Okay. Now
so let's not waste the time by writing notes in the class. programs will write but not nodes
okay now not okay now if you want to write notes I'll give
time now look at there reading runtime values
reading a runtime values solution to the problem see you tomorrow that is old
style uh need of this chapter up to now we have developed a program or a project
by hard coding. What the meaning of hard coding? Directly typing the values
either mathematics point of view or object oriented programming point of view in the variable assignment. Then
this hard coding problem solution is runtime values chapter. Uh always it
adds only 10 and 20 always it create the student HK. The problem in this approach
is program is always execute with the same values. We cannot change the values at runtime. Every time we should modify
the code, recompile the code for changing the values. Is this slide understand everyone? Second, uh tell me
what is the right way? What is the right way of running this program? I must read values at runtime from the keyboard. Let
user enter the mathematical values or let user enter the object- oriented programming values. For that what should
I do? I have to understand this chapter. In this chapter totally we are understanding simply how many points?
Five points. Uh first what is a hard decoded value? What is hardcoded application? What is the runtime value?
What is runtime value application? Problems with a hard decoded application. Advantages with runtime
values application. First you are understanding three points. Then what are the different ways to read runtime
values from the keyboard in Java. In a C language you have only two ways command line argument and by using scanoff. In
C++ also two ways. Number one command line argument and scan up scan up only
I didn't remember C++ okay uh in Java we have 10 approaches are there how many are there 10 approaches first one is
command line argument using main method parameter main method as a parameter string array by using parameter we read
second one by using systemind read third one by using buffer reader fourth one by
using scanner console system properties AWD swing Java FX Totally there are 10
approaches are there. So here seven only s I mixed here. Okay. Now now I I
dividing into separate part. Totally there are 10 approaches are there. Do we need to learn all these 10 approaches?
No no no just 10 approaches are there. In this chapter we are learning only three approaches or four approaches we
are learning. First approach command line arguments you have to learn. Second approach buffer reader you learn. Third
approach scanner and fourth approach console. You have to learn these four approaches. and the system properties if
you capable I will teach otherwise next coming chapters I will explain it okay so totally uh four three approaches
minimum you have to learn first one is the command line argument second one buffer reader third one scanner but if
you want to read some username password kind of thing then I required what console so let us also learn console
okay totally let us try to understand the first five approaches how to read the data and next a swing java fx this
is GUI approach There are two types of applications are there for reading values from the keyboard. Number one, CUI approach.
Number two, GUI approach. CI means directly on the console messages will be displayed. Character user interface or
console user interface. A separate window will not be there. So if you want to read data by providing separate
window like calculator application, when you open calculator application, you are getting separate window. Huh?
If you open calculator a separate window is there. Then what we call it as CUI or GUI? GUI a separate window is open. It
is asking here the enter values. Then it is called what? GUI application. So I want first you understand CUI to make
you understand GUI. You require lot of object oriented programming knowledge. You don't have that much knowledge. Now
here we are understanding only CUI. So first let us understand what is hardcoded. Now tell me if you specify
values in the program directly they are called what? Hard-coded values. These values are called hardcoded. And if the
application contain hardcoded values directly then that application is called what? Hardcoded application. Hardcoded
values. Hardcoded application is also called what? Static values and static application. The values those are
directly specified in a program to store in variables or for performing calculation. Then those values are
technically called hardcoded values. Simple. The values you see directly in the program they are called hardcoded.
The application that contains values specified directly in its source code to perform validations and calculations is
technically called as what? Hardcoded application. Okay. The program is called hardcoded application. Hardcoded values
are also called as static values because we cannot change them to another values at program execution time. There is a
confusion. Static and final are both the same. No, static is different. Final is
different. Final means once you store value in the variable, I cannot modify
either hardcoded way or runtime way. You cannot change that is called what? Final
static value means you cannot replace this 10 with 20 at runtime. At runtime,
we cannot. From the variable point of view, you are talking that is called what? Final. From the value point of
view if you talk that is called what? Static. In the program development time I have written 10. At runtime I am
unable to change 10 to 20 then we call it as what? Static value. At a program
compilation time I created a variable by assigning value 10. At runtime I am
changing the value 10 to 20 in the variable allowed. It is a variable not allowed. It is called what? Final
variable. More details about final variable discuss in the next chapter. Okay, at this minute just to focus on
value directly I've seen value that is called hardcoded value or static value. Uh the hardcoded application is also
called static application because at program execution time we cannot change the value to another value. So simple
one statement value directly you write that is called hardcoded or static. Directly you see a program with a value
then that application is called static value or hardcoded. Please write on this program.
completed. uh downright in real time projects.
In real time projects, we must always
read value read value
at runtime. Read value at runtime.
from from customer in bracket end user from customer in
bracket end user.
Can you write this diagram?
No. Write again. again. Please
make it fast.
At first today we have to complete two approaches.
From the end user read first value stored in A. From the end user read second value and store it in B. Then add
display the result back. Uh for clarity you can write here 10
and write here 20 and what value going here? 30. Printing
what? 30.
Next point right for reading values from keyboard.
For reading values from keyboard
for reading values from keyboard from end user
for reading values from keyboard from end user.
Java supports
How many approaches? 10 approaches.
Java supports 10 approaches.
Here look I I have combined AW and swing as one option. You just separate them.
Eighth one by using AWT window. Nine by using swing window and 10 by using Java
FX window. Okay. Now separate line 10 right from command line.
First check check.
This is nine
and this is 10. Swing on swing window is 9. Java FX is
10.
are writing these points. Why
I said only write this da already I explained you that already return notes again why you right
such a nice people you are
have written swing as a nine and java fx as a 10.
Next write down first point reading runtime values by using
reading write down reading runtime values
from command line. Reading runtime values from command line. Approach number one reading
runtime values from command line.
First point what is a command line don't don't write okay just listen
enough I will share all these points you can later write yourself or just follow we'll write only programming related
main point theory related I'll share what is a command line command command line uh command is nothing but Java C
command is nothing but Java where you are typing Java C Java one line where
command prompt. In a command prompt, okay, in a command prompt, you are
typing Java C edition. Java, this line
at which we are running commands Java Java C is called what? Command line.
Point number one. Point number two, what is command line arguments? I wanted to
run this program and read the values from the command line. Command line is
nothing but what? This line. Okay, this line is called what? Command line after addition class name. After addition
class name, here I'm typing the values 10 space 20. Uh, now this 10 space 20,
this is called what? Command line arguments. Arguments means what? Inputs. uh the input values the values we are
passing from command line as input to a program or input to an application or
input to a class of program application all what say repeat once again the
values we are passing as input to the class from the command line are called
what command line arguments command line arguments application uh this addition
class is a application because it is able to execute anything that can execute is called what application. Now
the class addition the application that reads inputs or runtime values from the
command line is called what? Command line arguments application. So what is the approach? Command line arguments
application. So totally three words first you should understand. Number one what is command line? What is command
line? Arguments. What is command line? Arguments application. Command line the
line in the command prompt the line at which we run the commands Java C Java is
called what? Command line. Second what is command line arguments. The values we
are passing as a input from command line to the Java application are called command line arguments. Next what is
command line arguments application? An application that reads the runtime values from the command line and execute
its logic is called what? Command line arguments application. All people are clear. Uh observe now one more time read
it. What is a command line? The the in the console or on the console window. On
the console window the line at which we run commands Java C Java for compiling executing Java programs is called
command line. They go command line. This da C users HK. This line is called what?
Command line. Next what is command line arguments? The input values those we are
sending from command line are called command line arguments. Look at there 10 and 20 are the inputs sending to program
from command line. So these are called command line arguments. Next what is a command line argument application? An
application that reads runtime values from command line to execute its logic
is called command line arguments application. This application read the arguments from command line. That's why
this addition is called what? command line arguments clear my point write on the slide
only slide sufficient show your talent of English preparing the sentences I'll share all the slides
okay the notes point I will share but let's not waste the time in the class after going to room if you want notes
you can copy later let's only focus on writing program we want to become programmer focus on writing more
programs let's not waste time on theory writing definitions writing
Please speak along with me. Automatically you'll understand everything.
First write this like entire line then one by command line. First box command
line. First point command line. Second point
command line arguments. Third point command line arguments application.
Uh now you tell yourself what is a command line? The line at which we run commands where
on console on console or on command uh command prompt on command prompt
the line at which we run commands is called command line. What is command
line arguments values the runtime values the runtime values we are passing from
command line to a Java application is called command line arguments. Uh what is a command line arguments application?
The application that reads values from command line is called what? Command
line arguments application. Done. Now my question how these values are passed into
addition class the moment I press enter
one powerful word I am using amate word automatically what
how these values I entered I prepared this command press enter these two
values are passing into this addition class or not Yes. How are they passed?
Huh? Automatically. Wonderful. Huh? When you eat food, how
it is digesting? Automatically you want to become doctor or R&B doctor.
You want to become MBBS doctor. R&B doctor. R&B doctor automatically. MBS
doctor. You have to do surgeries. So how it is digesting in the stomach? You should know stomach system. You should
know where I have to cut. You should know where I should cut the so that patient will not die. You should know
are you following? Uh so tell me now puppy very very important how this automatically sent. Let us try to use
data type chapter knowledge. A program wanted to receive
zero to n number of values. I don't type any value here. How many values I'm
passing? Zero. I'm passing one value. How many values? One. Two values. Two.
Three values. three four values four 100 values 100 now the class addition must
able to receive zero to n number of values individually as a grouper
come on I'm asking question as a group as a group it has to send then tell me
which concept in Java takes multiple values as a group array excellent uh
tell me now how command line arguments are passed into Java program individually One one value will pass as
array passed down. Who will create that array? You creator m you are in edition
program not on the console. Now come on everyone who will create array object
with these values 10 and 20. You are creating a Java command will create a uh
Java command is responsible for running this addition class by passing these two values. Then what is the step number
one? When you press enter here, these two values are automatically passed into
addition class. Hey no, let's follow step number one. Java command, nothing but JVM. Java command starts JVM. JVM
takes these two values and creates one array object and passes that array
object as argument to addition class. Are people understand? Now if you want
to pass as argument to addition class tell me class receive value of method
receive value of method arguments are passed to class or method method addition dot add of 50 60 to whom you
are passing 50 60 as argument method. So tell me inside addition class there
should be one method to receive the arguments or not. Yes. What is that method? Initial point of execution. Who
is the initial point of execution? Main method. Am I right? uh so tell me the
arguments we are passing from the command line are passed as argument to
main method as individual values as array object as array object now
question I'm asking how command line arguments are passed into Java program answer as array object to main method as
array object to main method point is clear second question I'm asking tell me
here the values I enter 1020 20 for this 1022 path JVM background creating what
array object. Which type of array? If you want to create array object data
type required or not? Uh which type of array? Int. Wonderful. Uh then how can
you pass double values? Uh double array. Oh wonderful. How can I
pass car values? Uh car array. How can I pass boolean values? H boolean array. How to pass the names string string
array. And JVM should design common to all values of value to value changer.
Common to all values. Tell me which data type can represent all types of values
string. Which type of value? Which data type can represent all types of values?
String. Tell me can I write double quotes 10? Yes. Can I write double quotes 10.5? Yes. Can I write double
quotes true? Yes. Double quotes ABC? Yes. Any type of value can be represented as what? string accept this
point don't try to understand if you want to pass any value from the keyboard to a program that is Java program
C program C++ program any kind of program when you are reading values from the keyboard into Java program that
value is the always comes as string only in all programming languages Python also
in any programming language the value come from keyboard to Java program from
Java program the value go back to the console only in what terms string only
sir I type 10 that is a 10 or double quotes 10 uh you typed as a 10 but
internally OS not JVM OS converts the 10 as what double quotes 10 that 20 is
converted as double quotes 20 so every value from the keyboard OS passes as
only as a string accepted then all people tell me why main method parameter
string. Main method parameter is meant for
reading the values from command line. The values coming from command line are always as string. Why? Main method
parameter string array
from the command line. We want read one value or multiple values. uh for reading multiple values from the command line as
a string format main parameter is string array. So tell me complete answer how
these values are how command line arguments are passed into the class as
string array object to main method. Who will create that string array object?
JVM. Who will pass that array object to the main method? JVN. Shall we see all the points now? Uh look at here. Look at
here. I have prepared a small execution flow slide.
Never learn with the word automatically. You have to learn everything. Now tell me how command line arguments are passed
into the application. Java edition 1020. When you type JVM reads the 1020
and creates what? Array object. Which type of array? Spring string array. First value in zero location 20 in one
location. Uh now zero location double quotes 10 one location double quotes 20 and then
takes that array object reference pass as argument to addition class. Everyone
understand? Tell me. If you want to pass to addition class inside addition class we have main method. Now main method
must be called. No tell me the syntax how to call how JVM calls the addition class main method. Addition dot uh
addition class main method is static or non-static. Static. How to call static method directly by its name? Addition
dot main method parameter is in in string string arena string array. String
array means we have to pass array object. Now tell me how how many ways we can create array object. Come on you
know already how many ways we can create array object. Three ways by using new keyword and size. Do you have values
there? No. Using flower bracket. Do you have values there? Yes. Uh now if I want
to use a flower bracket with values I should also use either variable assignment or both syntaxes combination.
All you people guess and tell me JVM creating array object for storing in the
programmer passing as a argument to the main method to pass as a argument do we need
variable or not required not required I JVM has to create string array object
without variable declaration isn't it? Uh tell me which three which of the three syntaxes we ought to use to create
array with values without variable declaration. Third syntax. What the third syntax? New string of flower
bracket. New string of flower bracket. New string of lower bracket. Observe. No
complete statement. When you type Java edition 10, 10 space 20 JVM. Java
command invoke what? JVM. Inside JVM we have a statement. The given class
addition dot main of uh array object how to create new string of square bracket
is not box it's a square bracket square bracket flower bracket flower bracket between flower bracket whatever the
command line arguments you type those values will be substituted with a comma separator with double quotes understand
who will prepare this line are you preparing a JVM I'm preparing uh what you do you will only write Java
edition 1020 press enter that's it the background store will be run by whom now? JVM. Inside JVM, we have this
statement. Is this a hardcoded statement or dynamically prepared? Dynamically prepared. You your class name are
changing time to time. Values are changing time to time. So this line is prepared dynamically. Uh now JVM
internally have the line the given class main of new string square bracket of
first value double quot, second value double quote. Up to now everyone understand? Tell me here if you want to
execute main method first of all array object has to be created now. Uh so first new keyword create string array
object circle with how many locations? Two location index number zero and one.
Uh with the given value double quotes 10 given value double quotes 20 object is ready. Tell me now that what is the
object reference 10. I told you now if you want to pass this object what should I pass reference. JVM picking that
reference taking that reference and giving as the argument to main method. Now main method receiving that reference
control is going to addition class main method arcs variable receive the tent and store it inside arcs. Hope you all
understand. Tell me are you learning automatically complete details sir? You only told you wanted to learn complete
details. Every day I'm asking you complete details or automatically automatic
we don't need to learn directly type values coming how automatically
okay how water coming from tank to your washroom or you know kitchen automatically. Who prepared that
automatic worker? Plumber. Who is the plumber in the company? You only. Who is
that user in the company? You only. You only has to do everything. Okay. Never
ever learn Java or any programming language with the statement automatically. If you learn with
automatically life become what? Automatically you will become dependent. If you become
dependent, you'll become servant. Slave. You'll become slave. Without that person, you cannot work. You cannot
live. So so many people are you know feeling a joy if I lose this job my life
is what because you become slave you didn't prepare your own platform to live independent of others so always never
learn automatically always learn complete flow got clarity uh all people tell me no values from the command line
1020 came into our Java program on the command line 1020 values came to
our Java program yes how to read those values in my Java program. Don't look at
my face. Look at the diagram. I want to read that command line argument 1 10. I want read command
argument 20 in my Java program. How can I read where values available? Now arcs ars is
pointing to array. Who created this array? JV and tell me arcs. How to read
the values available in the array syntax? Arcs of zero and next
one. Arcs of zero returns what? 10. Arcs of one returns what? 20. And tell me on
console you have seen first value. What? How to read? First value
arcs of zero. Second value. Third value. Fourth value of
understood. Uh now if ask a question how can I read command line arguments from the in the Java program use main method
parameter arcs read them as arcs of zero arcs of one arcs of two is it clear two
questions I covered number one how how the command line arguments are passed into Java program after passing inside
Java program how can we read okay write down write down this question how command line arguments are passed into
Java program. Right. Question first. How command line
arguments are passed into Java program?
Passed into Java program. Answer. Automatically.
Hey. No. Answer. As. as
as string array object as string array object
as a small letter capital letter capital letter as a string array object as
argument to main method parameter as argument to main method parameter
as argument to main method parameter Anyway,
that is also confusion as a string array object.
Any confusion? As a string array object as a argument
to main method parameter main method parameter.
Okay, write down this diagram. Want to write? Not required.
Not required. Not required. Go for direct program.
Write as it is arrow marks. How many curves I have taken? The same curves.
Each curve has a meaning. Don't show your talent.
completed. Uh what is the step numbers?
Step number one, this is press enter.
Press enter key. Step number one. Step number two, JVM
prepares this command. Then execution started. Step number
four, new keyword. Look at here. How to pronounce this? New keyword or new
operator. New operator creates string array object. This is
step number four. Or this is also step number four.
New keyword creates a string array object with the values 10 and 20.
Step number five, values are copied. Step number five, values are copied into
array. Three. Okay. Three is the statement.
JBM prepares this statement. Three.
First step, press enter. Second step, Java command invoke JVM. Step number three, JVM prepares this command. Step
number four, in this command, first which part executed? New new operator
creates a string array object. Step number four. Step number five, copy the values 10 and 20 in the respective
location. Step number six takes the reference.
Step number six, it takes the reference. Step number six, pass as a argument.
Step number six, pass as a argument. Step number seven, the 10 is passed as a
argument to main method. Step number eight,
values are stored in arcs variable pointing to it.
From here onwards, you should use your common sense and try to tell answers. Okay? You should not sit silently and
should not expect me to give answers. You know already knowledge. You already got knowledge. Uh so tell me when I
press enter on console control is came into now addition class add method.
inside add method what should I do? I should read the values which you entered on the console. Uh everyone tell me now
when you are reading values from the in the Java program or values coming from
console are values coming from the array object array object which is created inside JVM
software. Everybody understand how to read values by using arcs arcs data of
uh arcs of zero arcs of one. The values are not coming from console. Values are
coming from array. Step one, values are copied into array. Array is passed. Is it clear to everyone? Uh, right. Next
question. Close main method. Close class.
Don't write just read for revision purpose. JVM passes command line arguments as a main method arguments by
creating string array object with those values.
What is your doubt in five and six?
Five is reading the values. Six is returning that taking that
reference and giving passing as argument to main. Control is coming to main
method with the tent stored in arcs pointing to area object.
Iger understood.
Huh? Listen, JVM passes command line arguments as a main method argument by you by creating string array object with
those values. As shown about diagram, when we pass values at command line,
internal JVM will create string array object the given values and passes the string array object reference to
argument to main method. Then this array object reference is stored in main method parameter arx memory. Then the
parameter arc will pointing to this string array object. Next question right. How can we read command line
arguments in the application or program? Next, how can we read command line
arguments in the application?
Tell me what is your answer? By using
main method parameter arts answer by using write down answer by using only
answer you write don't write program again by using main method parameter
arcs main method parameter arcs as
write down this arcs of zero arcs of one, arcs of two, etc.
arcs of zero, arcs of one, arcs of two, etc.
Understood? Uh, shall we write a program now?
not completed.
Don't try to copy from the screen. Okay, Babu. When I'm read, when I'm dictating,
follow my voice. Change your attitude. Very important. If
you have a mind of copy from the screen, you never improve your thought process. When you are writing by your own by
listening my voice then your thought process will be improved. Okay. H now I want you rewrite this program.
Uh help me how to write remove this one not required class addition main method.
Okay. First you read values and show me read and print. After that how to store?
I will explain read first value. How to read? System.out.print print and arcs of zero system.out outer print and arc
server. Save this program already addition there. Now I want to save it as
addition 01 old program. Okay. And this is college program. We will see later.
First understand maths. Uh save. Let me
close this. Close it.
uh addition zero. Now what I have to do now go to command prompt then java C
edition Java where are you exit
Java C edition Java compile
uh Java edition how many values we are reading then pass two values 10 20
two vals are coming into program now can you see the flow Water flow water flow okay now first
from command line water coming into JVM JVM to array array to main method main
method to arcs uh arcs is your da in da water is there I'm reading first water
second water third water tell me is this command line arguments program can read only integers any type of value
10.5 20 hello yes uh 10.5 and here I'm writing hurry can reader yes so mayor.
So using command line arguments application from the command line I can read any type of value because the
parameter is what you type string. Okay. Now I want you answer array you are
reading the values from command line just for printing back to the yod or use them in the calculation
then I should print a store store difficulty point is starting
very confusion point 2 minutes don't
Okay.
Okay. Distract everyone look at here. Int equal to arcs
of zero. Uh int b equal to
ars of 1. Wow. Uh next in c equal to
ars of three wonderful
a + b. Uh next what I should write here? double quotes result colon plus c. Okay.
Now okay now okay okay now okay now not okay now why not okay
excellent wonderful hey arcs of zero returns 10 double quotes 10
how double quotes can 10 be stored in a
everyone understand so what type of variable I have to take here ah wonderful string and here what I should
write string here what I should string. Wow. Marvelous. Okay. Go to command
prompt. Clear screen. Okay. This much talented now you become
now from the childhood childhood. Excellent.
Java C edition Java compile Java edition
by giving value 10 and 20. Then what output coming?
Wow. Huh. Just look like a wow. Huh?
Customer expecting the addition of 1020 concatenation of 1020
concatenation. You taken 1 CR to concatenate these two values. So tell me you want ars of zero
value as a string type as in type as in type then only you can add. You want
add. You don't want concat. We have to use as a mathematical value not as a string. So you have to assign arcs of
zero to whom now int. Then compiler asking array tumor fellow this value is
a string. How can I assign to int? Possible or not possible? Not possible. You will get two compile time errors.
Compile incompatible types. String cannot be converted to int. String cannot be
converted to in. Everyone understand? So tell me what should I do now? I have to
write logic now after reading arcs of zero directly. I cannot assign to inta.
I have to write logic to convert double quotes 10 to 10. To convert uh to
convert double quotes 20 to 20. Everyone understand? Uh tell me this logic. Who
has to write? I should write you should write all developers in this world has to write. Now all developers has to
write same logic. uh remove these double quotes and prepare what 10. Remove these double quotes 20 and prepare as what 20.
So every developer has to write same logic. Then who has to write that logic?
Is it a specific to my project or common logic? Who has to write common logic for
Java developer? Sun micros system should write. Who should write? Sun micro system. Then logic means part of method
that method name is parse. What the method name? Pars. The method name is
parse. Who written this method? You return as unwritten already available. What the name of the method? Parse. But
parse method has to parse the given argument into which type by int flo. How
many primitive data types we have? Eight. So now from the keyboard I can read how many values? Eight type of
values. Then all eight type of values are coming into Java program as a string type. From the string type I have to
convert it into respect to primitive type. So we have different parse methods
are there. Currently you want to convert it into which type? Int type. The method name is what? Parsons.
Pass this value as argument to parse into method. Internal logic is working
on this arcs of zero. Takes double quotes 10 converted as 10 and return to
our program. Everyone understand? uh if you compile this program compiler look at your face and asking
what are you doing what is this arcs of parsing method I don't understand okay compiler throwing error cannot find
symbol cannot find symbol method which method parsing where parsing available
are you calling parsing method by using any class name no directly when you call directly compiler searching for this
method in which class our class is it available in our class or predefined class The class name is integer. What
the name of the class? Integer. Integer dot parsing. Hi, I'm calling parsing
method directly by using class name dot. That means this is a non-static method as static method. Static method. So try
to answer. Now if you want to convert a primitive data value from string format
to its own value, I have to use what parse method where that parse method is
available in integer class. Are you ready to talk? Now tell me I want to convert 10.5 to 10.5 double quotes 10.5
to 10.5 what statement I have write here hey 10.5 what type double type tell me
double dot parse double of arcs of zero uh suppose I am reading from the
keyboard double quotes double quotes true double quotes true convert to true
what sign I have write boolean dot pass boolean wow of zero Oh, super. Uh, tell
me now totally how many predefined classes are there? Eight. How many primitive types we have?
Eight. As many primitive types are there. Those many predefined classes are there. For each primitive type, we have
one predefined class for this conversion purpose. And tell me what the first class name sorry what the first
primitive data type by capital B or small B now. All people are answering.
If you don't answer you will cry every day because every day I have to read values from the keyboard only. Now then
every day we write this logic. If you come back not understand sir again I will explain again you don't understand.
As many days you don't involve those many days you don't understand. As many you don't write the cycle you don't
understand the balance. Yes or no? Uh tell me what the first primitive data type B capital B. Uh now tell me for
this primitive data if we have one predefined class what the class name by small B by uh class name starts with
what capital letter capital B by come on next short
uh in not in integer data type is in
class name is integer short long
small capital uh uh float floor Next
double double double uh care character not care character. Next
boolean boolean string string string is not a primitive data type. Okay. Now
there is no string. So eight primitive data types are there eight wrapper classes. What we call these classes as
wrapper classes. All you people are what students then only you people as a
group. What students? Core Java student. Which core Java? HK Gore Java students like that these eight classes are meant
for representing primitive value as a object because it is covering primitive
value as a one object covering that's why these classes are called what wrapper classes now tell me now tell me
now the command line arguments are coming into Java program as their
primitive type as a string as a string if you assign the value to primitive
variable compiler will throw error So much then what the solution to this
problem? I have to convert that primitive value from string format to
its own wrapper class. Command line arguments are passed into Java application as a string type values.
Then how can we convert look at the question how can we read arcs of zero?
Then how can we convert command line arguments to their own primitive type? Right up. Next question.
1 minute. 1 minute. What you written? How to how can we read command line arguments
by using R sub0? Continuation writer. Continuation writer. The values we read from the command
line. The values we read from the command line.
The values we read from the command line
are written as or or wait. R
passed as are passed as string type value
passed as a string type values
will stop. We cannot directly assign.
We cannot directly assign
arcs of zero. Y of you're writing a square bracket
uh arcs of 0 to primitive variable
primitive variable directly. primitive variable directly.
It leads to compile time error. It leads to compile time error. See
compile time error. String cannot be converted to int.
String cannot be converted to int.
uh string cannot be converted to int. Come back to this program in your notes.
Write down these two lines, this diagram, everything there. Your space, right? Don't write program again. O
don't write program again. Go to that previous page. Your space there.
If no space, write on these two lines again. Your wish. If space is there there only right otherwise right
continuation
already I have written this program in that program write down only these two lines.
Int B as it is this blue color double code style compile ICT.
Will you try all these errors also in your system? You have to try you have to experience errors also
only final output. If you see nothing will come errors also you have text you have to write
this is not first time you are seeing ICT incompatible types
incompatible type string cannot be converted to int. Uh next slide question
down. How can we convert runtime values?
How can we convert runtime values?
How can we convert runtime values from from from
string type to from string type to
uh string type to their primitive type their own type their own primitive type
their own primitive type here in just example
their own primitive to type for example into double etc.
Answer. By using Answer by using
predefined classes. By using predefined classes
called C L I called wrapper classes.
Wrapper. Wrapper. W R A P E R. Wrapper classes.
Wrapper classes. Next file. For each primitive data type,
For each primitive data type,
we have one separate class.
One separate class to represent a primitive value as an
object. to represent primitive value
as an object. And
to perform to perform different
conversion operations and to perform different conversion
operations. Different conversion operations.
Fister all eight wrapper classes sorry all
eight otherwise let's do one thing below table shows I directly write this table extra
statement let's try to decrease not as much as possible write on this table PDD means
WC means right what is this meaning of this arrow marks
Super class, subclass, bite, short, integer, long, float to double. These six classes are subasses of which class
number is a subclass of object. Character, boolean, void. These three
classes are not subasses of number. They are direct subasses of object. At this
minute, don't much concentrate on superclass subclass. Okay? But diagram point of view I'm giving.
Pastor ask check check
these six classes in one box and these three classes in another box
and write one line here. Actually wide is not a wpper class but
we have return type wide. For that also we have reference type wide.
Rapper classes means eight
Don't try to write very neatly.
completed. Uh next bullet point tell me by using classes we perform conversion by using methods available in the class
method available in the class. Write up to convert
to convert primitive value to convert primitive value
from string type from string type
in bracket double quotes 10 from string type in bracket double
quotes 10.
Not a bracket. N double quotes. Nana
double quote.
Huh? Right. What? To convert primitive value from string
type to uh string from string type in bracket double quotes 10 two
primitive value to primitive value
primitive value in bracket 10 to primitive value
in bracket 10 comma
in all wrapper classes. Wait. Okay. Uh
in all wrapper classes in all wrapper classes
except character. In all rapper classes except character.
See smaller capital character class name. Cap letter
character. We have We have one predefined method.
We have one predefined method.
Predefined ECAP ED one predefined
NE method called parse. predefined method called C L E called
parse. P A R S E parse not
already have seen the method programming
come out from the real come out from the social media so that
your brain will work properly. Uh listen in all these wrapper classes except in
character class we have a special static method to convert primitive type value to their respective type from string
form. The method name is parse. Look you have to write xx first x is
capital letter remaining x is small xx right. Now the name is pass x x x of
string value.
Uh when listen carefully I'm writing 10 classes. Listen listen
once again. I'm writing 10 classes. In all 10 classes first word starting is
same. Next what is changing? Then what you call it as xxx. Okay. Now I have
method starts with what? Pass. Here what will come? int double float bite hair
boolean like that. So here what I have to write commonly xxx parse xx why x is
cap first x is capital letter because first letter is capital letter second word first letter is capital letter what
I have to pass as a argument string that returns what primitive value clear my point right uh now let us write full
syntax this just name full syntax
write this is the full syntax the the method full prototype is
write down This one first
the me full prototype Please
write only first box.
don't write next boxes only first box number format exception did you remember
this syntax language fundamentals chapter we discussed if the given value wrong I
have to throw exception how to report exception by using throws and tell me If you pass wrong value, this method is
telling I will throw exception. So you have to pass correct value. Uh look at here.
How many wrapper classes we have? Uh in a byte class
what is the method available in a byite class? What the method available? Parse by what the parameter
string value. Tell me it is a bar parse by method returns what? by listen
carefully. Add method we have written add method. Add method taking two inputs a comma b internal logic adding result
is returning back to our program as what type in. So what the full method we have written that day in add int, b but this
method to call I need one memory now the memory to provide which keyword we have used static. So this method also should
be what? Static. If I don't write static can I call this method? No study. This method is available in our folder or in
different folder. If you want to access one folder program into our folder, it must be what? Public. What? Public.
Public static by parse by or string value. Understood? Uh tell me in a short
class. Uh in a short class, what is the method?
Uh what is the method? Public static short
of string value. Okay. Uh now can I copy paste now? Uh tell me now in
integer class integer class public static return type is what? In uh parse
int of string value. Understood? Huh? No par in not integer. The primitive
data type is integer in in class is integer. But what we write here
primitive type in primitive type in you want to convert to which type?
What is available here? Data type. What is X representing? Sar
this X is what data type. Write down this. How many classes? Eight classes.
Write down three classes I gave. Remaining remaining four classes, five classes you write. I want to check how
much you are talented
while try underline that X and write on there data
type data type name otherwise you'll not understand. In parse XXX this 3 XS is
what? Data type name. Okay.
write small small characters. Don't spread the me into next line. You should know how much space you have there.
Place methods in box.
Each method pairs in box. B small letter cap letter written type B small letter
method name B cap letter in box.
No no no only method. Each method, each method Place in box
public static
first. Check. Check.
P smaller capital then why you writing P capital you are
feeling small but I'm feeling capital space there are not there then why you
giving space they all considered in the written test exam
pass fast check checka tomorrow onwards you people will not sit in this line no
he'll go inside because I'm correcting your mistakes.
See, you are here for learning, right? Uh if I don't look into your notes, how
can I correct your mistakes? It is an opportunity to you.
If I student, I always near to the faculty even in the colleges also.
subject and there if he's me or beating me I least bother
I want subject I when I commit mistake he has to find out he's that's why I'm paying the fees to him
if I extend our course duration more 2 hours continuously 4 hours if I take will you get bored
Stop four hours of warm my brain is blasting. Yes sir. Then you are not
suitable for IT industry. Don't go. Really I'm telling if more hours class
is going if you feel boring or you want to run away from the class then you are not suitable for IT industry. IT
industry means what? 8 hours minimum you have to work continuously without rest.
Minimum I am saying minimum it's like home
only you know how to come inside ad what do you call your team lead will decide when you go out huh everyone return
uh next class is what long uh everyone observe once again look at here please
this is a primitive data type keyword here so what I should write small L this
is A method name method name first letter is capital long understand this
is not a wrapper class primitive type A but method naming convention long huh next float
float class public static small fat parse float capital F uh next double
double class small double Uh capital D because the naming
convention. Uh next uh next character. Uh public care. Uh then here
pass care. Wow. Super. Uh uh uh. Next. Next. Boolean. Boolean
class. Public stat. Uh small B boolean. Next par.
Capital boolean. Wow, super eight methods
are gaj. Go back and read the statement before
these methods. You have written something. You know all rapper classes except in a
character
except a character class. That means uh bulo what about this is it there or not
therea not there that's why I gave you to write if you commit mistake you will
remember lifetime
not available
right on that in a character as par method is not available. Strike off that
and write down not available.
Okay. Uh so finally we have understood what is command line.
Can you do you have any class now? What class? Oracle
class 11:00 class. Where is Oracle class? Oracle class even 2:00. No, you
cheat me. Okay. I am so intelligent than your you can't
cheat me. Okay. Huh? Look at here. Help me to write this
code now. Addition class main method integer. A rx of zero. Now here what I should
write int equal to integer dot parse int of parse int of arcs of 1. Okay. And
save it. Go to command prompt. Now program compile now. Yes. Successfully compiled. Let me open the folder command
prompt. Let's conclude this program and we'll leave. Okay.
Uh Java C addition Java compile successfully.
Everyone please notice Java addition. This is a normal
programmer command line arguments. So after addition you have to pass two values 10 20 result is 30. Wow. Uh now
can I change the value to 30? Yeah. Output is 40. Can I change value to some 70? Yeah. 100. Can I change some value
dot? Some value to some value like this? Yes.
Then result is coming. So tell me now this program is static application or runtime values application.
Uh write up. Write up. Rewrite addition program.
Rewrite addition program. Rewrite addition program.
to read runtime values.
To read runtime values from command line
to read runtime values from command line, please give the line gap between. Okay.
Write down class edition main method one second.
Uh can you start writing from here itself? No, I don't don't write all arrow marks
just Java edition 1020 create this array object with 1020 then class addition
arcs by in okay let me do one thing 5 minutes
let us make it simple
okay it will give you more clarity uh Java Edition
from Java edition. What happened? Directly control is coming to
addition arcs with reference 10 10 not 1020
and pointing to area object
like the shortcuts 1
2 3
4 5
online students are lucky fellows they can click on leave button go okay but you don't have a chance offline
students
today I want you completed that's why taking extra time not 2 hours don't worry Just more 5 minutes. I have class
at 11:00.
Now tell me here arcs of zero from arcs of zero what is going into parsing
method double quotes 10 then what is coming out and stored in a 10
here a memory create store 10
what is coming from arsa 1 double quotes 20.
Uh what is storing in B? 20. B variable memory created 20.
Now here write in
C = A + B system.out out print
result colon plus C.
Remember uh you must practice this program in
system today. Okay. So
this is system practice program.
Uh then what happened next?
C variable memory created with what value? 30
and result is coming 30 uncons. Close main method. Close. Close.
You have to totally type four programs. First static nature program 1020 direct.
Second reading values from console and printing soph.
Third program assign arx of0 to intb directly. Compile time error. Then
fourth program this farint method program. Okay. Now so tomorrow shall I
ask you questions on this topic? Totally there are 10 questions to ask tomorrow. All 10 questions I will ask
you should be able to answer and all these slides I'll upload to the Google classroom. You can revise what you have
learned today. Okay. Now thank you. That's all for today class.
If you have any confusions please ask.
Colon. Colon. Colon.
Separator.
Sunil Sunil Kumar are you not in the class just now you come back.
Thank you.
online students. Do you have any questions?
Chicken biryani. Chicken biryani.

