ript


Hello students is board visible.
Uh okay listen
last class we are trying to understand
how to read values from the keyboard by using
buffer reader right uh all the people understood
everyone any questions yeah Many people have tried yesterday
example how to develop and people have sent me messages uh in WhatsApp for the
different doubts that's nice and remember you never try to understand
that is a big mistake every time you are doing don't understand if you understand
you never understand again I'm repeating my statement is
clear don't try to Understand? If you try to understand, you never understand.
What you have to do? Accept. Remember, start, apply slowly, slowly
automatically will understand.
Uh now everyone look at here. This is our console.
Is it visible? This is console.
Console means what you are feeling. Command prompt. command prompt after
typing Java command some screen is open that JVM running screen that part that
empty space is called what console console next this console is part of
whom your system this is your system system is nothing but computer
system is nothing but computer
in your system You have command prompt. In command prompt you run java command.
Okay. This is java command. You run java. Uh what the name of the program has taken? Edition. Okay. Java edition.
We have run last year visible. Okay. Java edition.
Then when you press enter currently this is command prompt. Okay. Huh? In the
command prompt when you press enter, now the console will be started. This window
is a command prompt window. This command prompt window background will contain one screen called our console which you
cannot see. This console implicitly this console implicitly will be
connected to the keyboard. Who will connect?
Not you. system system only background connected to keyboard
this is keyboard when you start the system you are giving
plug now right so your CPU plug is automatically connected to background
console here this is a wire connection or internal connections we don't worry this is connection
okay this is keyboard uh assume All these are uh buttons,
keys, tab. Okay, this is our system here. This
everything is your system.
Is it clear? Uh now the question in the system when you run Java edition edition
class execution started where in the console and okay in the console only JVM
is started for your understanding purpose just I'm writing side this is our JVM
this is our JVM in the JVM uh now our addition class is available
in the JVM the class called addition is available uh class
addition the complete program open bracket main method
string errors that entire thing is available okay so just visualize that I'm not writing fully
uh observe what happened background the moment when I type java edition control
is coming to where now JVM inside JVM we have addition Yes. Now the moment JVM is
started to this console how many connections are opened? I told
three connections are opened. By default there are three connections are opened.
First one what is this? System dot
out. Okay let me take system in. First one is what? System.in. Second one
system dot out system er internally totally three connections are there. So
system.in system.out system three connections are available. Now this
connection is open by whom JVM the moment JVM started automatically
connection is open. Then what you want to do? You want to read the data from the console from the keyboard. Whatever
the keys I press here that keys data will be given to whom now uh this
connection this connection is placing the data on the console. The moment I press enter on the console this data is
traveling via system.in traveling via system.in and giving to
our Java program. In a Java program what you are writing here system dot in you
have written dot what method you call read method. System in refers to this connection. Okay. And read method going
into this connection object whatever data available here it is reading and giving to your program. Understand? Now
tell me now system in problem is what? Its problem is what? It can read only
one character or one digit. It read only one character or one digit that is called one bite. It can read only one
bite. You want only one bite or all bytes. All byes complete one line. Then it is a bad bad style of reading. Then
what I have to do? I have to require one extra object. Suppose you have a pipe
connection from the water tank to your house. Then the water coming from the tank with all the dust particles and the
all the things are coming. I don't want all things. I want to filter the water
only water pure water I want the dust particles everything I wanted to stop for that you are adding one filter now
similarly to this connection I am adding one filter to this connection I'm adding
one filter now this filter will read one line at a time this filter will read one
line at a time so our Java application it is you are creating a inbuilt
available inbuilt available this connection inbuilt available. Now this connection reading the data from the
screen but reading only one bite at a time. Now but I want all bytes available in one line. Then we have added extra
connection. This extra connection is what? Buffer reader. But buffer reader can I connected to the system.in? No.
Then what are you doing? You are adding the bridge object. Isr object input
stream radar object. Input stream radar object you have added. Then input stream
reader object can give the data but I need one more extra object from this.
What the extra object buffer reader what the object buffer reader uh so tell me
it's like a pipe connection one pipe connected to another pipe connected to another pipe. So tell me the data from
the system incoming to ISR ISR giving the data to BR then BR is giving the
data to our program. Everyone understand our yesterday flow. uh yesterday I didn't explain with the diagram I don't
want you first understand with the diagram previous batches I tried with the diagram slowly slowly what happened
after complete you go to advance after advance was spring springboard tell me next level faculties are my student
they're following my teaching methodology no then what happened there they will write a statement connection
conal to driver manager got connection this connect to the database what is our style of learning with the memory
diagram with visualization next level faculties are teaching with visualization no then there you are
facing the problem all seniors are coming back and asking you start advance you start spring I'm not understanding
there then I ask why you are not understanding uh everything you are explaining with the diagrams there sorry s is not explaining with the diagram
writing one statement writing one comment connected to the database connected to the executing query getting
the results then what it is is doing background we are not getting visualization we are facing the problem
that's why I changed little bit methodology ology according to next level what next level style statement
what it is doing that is doing accept but later I have to make you understand
huh our style also very important that's why first I am writing sentence making you remember then next I will explain
with the memory diagram everyone understand the flow huh now tell me what are the steps happen up to now everyone
try to answer step number one in the main method what I written buffer reader BR equal to BR BR variable created
Buffered radar BR equal to new buffered reader. Tell me buffered reader is an
object. Uh buffered reader is an object that contains our student number student
kind of variables. No, it contains data connection based object. It is not a
normal object. It is what connection based object. That connection based object will be memory structure will be
like this. Our regular objects memory structure is what circle with the con with the variables like this will be
there isn't it but what objects you want I want objects with the connection based connection based object representation
will be like this understand right so tell me now first what happened you created BR variable created equal to new
buffer reader object is created connected to whom now new input stream reader connected to whom now systemin
system connected to whom now console Understood? So whenever I say buffer
reader, can you visualize this diagram? Second point next statement what I have written
system.out.print ln tell me system.out.print ln means it
is a out object connected to the JVM. Now JVM already created with this and
now system.out.printn when I write system.out.print this is system.out
from the system.out out messages are coming to console. What message first we have displayed? Enter. Everyone should
participate. Enter first number. Uh once you enter first number, next line what you are
written uh what is that variable name? A a variable is created equal to you
called what? BR dot read line. You call BR do read line. So tell me what is the
meaning of BR dot read line. Read line method has the logic internally. Read
line method has logic internally reading the data from where we are pointing
object. We are pointing to which object this connection then it will go to that connection. In that connection is there
any data available? When there is no data can it read or cannot read? Cannot read then it is control is paused here.
Okay. Now understood my point. Uh so tell me so if you wanted to read data from the console what method I have to
call read line is read line directly going to the console no no what it is doing read line method will go into BR
object in the BR object do you have any data no when there is no data what I have to do pass uh you went to one
supermarket for buying one cage of sugar uh now the sugar is not available in front of you then you give the order to
the shop owner until shop owner going inside the shop collecting that and bringing you weight outside now. Same
thing. So, BRE line you looking into the shop. In the shop there is no sugar packet. Then what this owner is doing
now is now BR is nothing but shop owner. Shop owner is now started walking into the shop. From there to the place where
sugar is available. Uh now cursor is blinking. Nothing but you are waiting for the enter the data. Tell me now you
are entering the data. What year? 10. Everyone participating. Just by entering the 10 is the data
going into the program what you did you just enter 10th today class is too much
horrible if you don't understand what I am explaining now the next class next program we are learning scanner scanner
is horrible scanner understanding not that much easy buffer reader properly if you don't understand scanner will
torture you like anything I cannot help you further so that's why participate and reply along with me when you call
read line method is a data immediately coming up first program pausing
why program pausing because data not available in the buffer reader object in buffer reader
object data not available that's why program execution is passed huh everyone tell me if I call read line method two
times how many times program execution passed two times first time read line method looking into BR object data not
available then now we enter a data data come here red now second time when I
call read line method where it is looking into again BR object in the BR object data is available or not
available not available again it is a passing as many times you call read line method those many times program
execution is passed because data not available in the BR object now I have a question everyone think read line method
should read how much data from the BR object whatever data in the BR object all data it will read no it read only
one line it read only one line everyone tell me how can BR object. How can read
line method knows? Huh? One line reading completed return the data. One second
line reading completed return data. After reading one line, after reading one line, it returned the data to our
variable and storing. Isn't it? How it knows that one line is reading completed. For that there should be a
identity. Now, so tell me you are coming from your hostel to my room. Then you are walking on the road, walking on the
road, walking continuously walking. No how long you are walking under our building is coming. What the name of
this building? Nacker nacker building until Nacker I my building coming then coming inside then you are floor by
floor floor by floor going. No first floor take left side left side left side
go inside the class find the chair and sit. So that means you have some identity where to stop. Now similarly
read line method should have identity where to stop. What is that identity?
That identity is nothing but enter key. Identity is nothing but enter key. Enter
key is nothing but human character. Now so tell me when you press just by typing 10 10 is not going into the program 10
and also what enter key. Now the data is going into system.in uh into system.in
only 10 comma enter key character also. You are again waiting.
Whatever you type on the console everything will go. What you type only 10 10 and enter character. Ah 10 and
enter key characters both will come. Then it is dropping into ISR only 10
enter key character also. Now uh then from there data is dropping into BR object only 10 and enter character.
Excellent. 10 and enter key character. Then read line method reading entire data at a time. No, no, no. Character by
character is reading first character, second character, third character, fourth character, fifth character. How
long until new line is found? Until enter key character is found. Yes. Yes. Enter key character found. Then return
the data. Okay. What is returning? 10 enter key
also. Now 10 enter key also.
Only 10 this enter key character not for my Java program. 10 enter key character
for whom? Readine matter. Everyone understand? Huh? So tell me here 10 and enter key character coming as what?
Stringer. 10 and enter key character coming as what? Stringer. 10 and enter key character coming as what? String.
And then return 10. Now this 10 you have given to whom now? Integer dot par of
double quotes 10 came in. Okay. I don't want right. Uh now next parsing method
return the data as a 10 and store it inside what variable A here.
Are you guys understand of open notes now? Open notes now check first line
what you have written buffer reader BR equal to new buffer reader. What the meaning of that line? Connection to the
keyboard. Connection to the keyboard means you have to understand as pipe symbols.
Understand pipe symbols. Okay. Now everyone comfortable now getting visualization. Buffer radar BR equal
buffer radar. This line is connected to the keyboard console. Okay. Uh second enter first number message printed via
system.out. Okay. Next a variable a memory created equal to brline.
uh read line looking at console looking into BR object in BR object data is
there or not there then program execution is pass where on console cursor is blinking uh then next now end
user enter the data 10 just enter 10 and sit silently no he press enter key enter
key meaning is what move the data then the data is moving into system in from
there to ISR from there to br uh data is going only entered the characters
including enter key character if enter key character is not passed what is the problem uh read line method
don't know how how long it has to read where to stop so that's why enter key characters are the identify identification then the data is moving
into scanner object sorry BR object in the BR object the data is available now
the read line method started reading tell me the enter step numbers step number okay BR object creation step
number one okay BR object I'm not considering lead method Flow of execution tell me BR read line step
number one then looking into BR object step number two data available or not available not available step number
three program execution is passed program execution passed is step number three then step number four data enter
press enter key step number five data is moved 10 enter key with a double quotes
and then entered into systemout print five and then going into ISR object six
then coming into BR object seven and then BR read method found the data
reading the data eight yes or no reading data eight and giving to input stream 9
and then giving to a variable 10 oh 10 no confusion confusion m
no confusion better let me take 50 oh 5 again confusion
morning 7 one student asked me question shall I share should not get angry
I was explaining Java commands how to create a jar file and Eclipse how to
work with jar file in Eclipse end of the class he asked me wonderful awesome question sir how to use these commands
in the Mac OS. Am I explaining Windows commands or Java
commands? Explaining Eclipse, Windows, Eclipse.
Whatever you do in Java, in Windows, same work you have to do in Mac OS. No
that kind of wonderful questions you are getting means how worst way you are thinking. Understand?
Day by day, day by day, you are killing your thought process. That's what I worrying. What question I'm asking you not having
minimum common sense also Windows key mac Java is a first day class what is
that Java is a platform independent object platform independent object
oriented programming language don't worry about uh don't worry about operating system in
one OS what you do same thing you do in another OS also day by day you are forgetting the things
uh come back now step number uh 10. So in the sub number 10 value 50 coming and
storing in the variable. Everyone understand? Now the question is this 50
I'm cheating English only you don't understand. Uh now after reading this 50 is this 50
still there in the buffer reader or removed removed. After reading uh step number uh step
number eight step number eight reading this is nine. Actually it's not 10. This
is 11. The moment it read 8 9 uh 8. This is 10.
This is 9. Removing. Removing data from here is nine step. Eight. Read. Uh one second.
Not here. Yeah. Here also removed. Obviously.
Okay. Removed. Here also removed. Here also removed. Okay. Here. Let me write removing is
ninth step reading and removing. Okay, got clear here. Huh? Now tell me you
called uh next go. Next go next what I written system do.out print ln enter
second number. Then here message printed what? Enter second number. Uh now tell
me after printing enter second number is going down. What you written there? A A
variable B variable B variable equal to what you written BR dot read line BR do
read line let me take another color BR do read line
uh when you call second time BR do read line BR do read line looking into BR object do you have data no data uh
program execution continued pass then control is going to console blinking
okay now user has seen oh you are blinking you want data Okay, I'm entering 60 enter key then the data is
started traveling to system in 60 enter key is coming here
double quotes uh from there coming to 60 enter key double quotes
uh from there coming to BR object let me write on top
then BR read line now reading This data I'm removing from here and then return
to whom integer dot par of and then integer parse in reading and storing in
the variable data coming 60 understood the flow of execution fully paka convert
later.
and next remember from the day beginning first day onwards I am telling you when you don't
understand something don't allow me to go to next points to explain
understood If you don't ask me questions when I ask did you understand? If you don't say
that I have questions or not understand then how do I know? I'll move to the
next points. Okay. When I move to the next points then you'll feel that not understood.
You understood already but you want some confirmations that you understood or not. If you raise the questions I will
explain again then you'll feel that ah now thank you sir understood. There are two kinds of people are there. One
person immediately understand what I explained. Second kind of person they understood but they don't know that they
understood. So they will ask me sir this is right. Uh yes babu right? Huh then
thank you sir. Now I accept and they are having filters in their brain. They not allow me to go inside. They will stop
there after confirming from the harrishna then it will be stored. So that's why whenever you feel something
is a question confusion first you ask me then allow me to go to next points. Clear? Understood? When you are leaving
this door outside, everyone should have a feeling that yes, today class everything I know. Let me open system
and type the code. That feeling you should have. Uh something explain
something something I'm not getting to my mind then don't go don't go outside door don't click on the leave button
wait get the confirmation get understand everything then only go out. Some students will ask the questions in the
class itself during I am very happy for that. Once my explanation completed I will ask everyone clear understood uh
then if you silently sit amu I don't ask if I ask him a score let him score that's part of the course
should not score anything is there teacher means should score student means should bear the scoldings
I never care in my education I never care about the faculty feelings I always care about my feelings.
I used to torture my faculty like anything. I taught so many points to my faculties with my questions and I
encourage you to ask the questions because of your questions. My knowledge also will be improved and your classmates knowledge also will be
improved. Okay? Now remember it. I am so happy to explain you any topic 100 times
also I'm okay for that until you understand you should not leave me. I should not go to next points. Remember
it and implement it? Uh online students, everyone understood
write on how you write. Shall I write diagram again?
Are you copy? Uh this either from the board you can copy or from the screen you can copy.
Which one you want? What does screen?
Okay. or else copy at home. Let's not waste time. Now this diagram
board diagram both I will send the pics. Okay. After going to home you copy remove leave half page space.
You understood concept writing notes time based. Okay. Huh?
Here the 10 coming
and next if I show my WhatsApp you will cry you will surprise not cry surprise
yesterday at 11:33 one student send message it's not
working correct my answer 11:33 and next at 12:10 he only replied thank
you sir I understood I saw the problem by myself. Okay, I'm so happy. Okay. Uh
so remember any time you can send message. No problem. Always I'll be online. If
I'm sleeping I cannot respond. Okay. Now next day once I wake up the first first moment I will check what are the
messages I receive and I reply to your messages and I'll go for next. Clear my point. 24 by7 365 days I'll be available
online. Okay. That's why Jio I bought. Okay. Yeah. Right.
Okay. Uh sorry. Uh leave one page gap and next slide.
How many of you know C language? C language. C language. 1 2 3 4 5. I
don't ask any personal questions. Don't fear. Okay. If I raise and you may ask questions. Uh now few people know.
Listen carefully. People who are coming from C language to Java, C students, C
faculties are crying on Java saying that your Java is very nonsense. See integer
dot par dot read like throws IO exception one more uh it has so many
problems problems of buffer reader object actually buffer reader doesn't have any
problem. See programmers creating it as a problem. uh in C language look at here
this is a small bji three lines we write print enter first number in a scan up
percentage and percent but in Java oh see how many steps I had
import java in import you're writing in Java in C
language writing hash include conoh how can I say C is easy to fellow second
inside program you are writing print f print f of uh enter first number in java what
you have written system dot out dot extra system out writing that is functional programming this is object-
oriented program here you require just a function there you need object dot that's why system out second uh then
next what you're writing in int equal to integer dot parse brline brine is
nothing but what scan scan BR read oh you writing B or extra buffer reader BR
equal to lot you are writing because Java is object oriented programming you have to create object
C is a functional programming so directly function okay uh next very important point all C programmers are
complaining on Java see in my C language the given data automatically converted I
don't need to do any conversion really blindless fellow blindless fellow blind fellow blind fellow what is
What is this percentage? That is a format specifier. It is telling that the value whatever
reading from the keyboard scan up scan up you internally read the data from the
console converted to decimal value and store in a that is the meaning and to
the scan method internally you are telling that what percentage tell me is
this percentage only percentage time to time changing uh if you want to read
integer percentage floating point percentage of character
string then how many percentages you are remembering for each value one separate format specified there in Java also
there what is that format specify in Java parse
float par double tell me remembering percentage easier remembering par is easier par you have to tell percentage
no I'm not convincing you really If you
remember only one word parse enough. What type of value you want read? In
parse in what type of value you want read? Float parse float. What type of point? Care parse care. Yes or no? Uh so
tell me Java is actually people are understanding in a wrong pro point of view. You see like this in Java also
should be like this wrong way they are learning and finally confusing. I students can you see the screen now?
Okay. So they are understanding from the Java wrongly. Uh the extra characters are there, extra characters are there.
That extra words and characters are there because of object-oriented programming style. In a C language
whatever you are doing in JavaScere here percentage double quotes, comma
this extra syntaxes are there in Java. No, Java is a plain English programming
language. But people understanding is wrong. Then initially James Kosling
ignore okay initially ignored Java is easy follow up to 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4
before he ignored but in Java 5 version he realized that why should I just one
method extra if I add C developers also happy now they will not cry why I should make them
cry okay then C style of reading data C style of writing data introduced in Java
5 version in Java 5 version print F method is given with the same style
printf style okay now In Java 5 version, scan off also available. Up to Java 1.4
version, we can read data from the keyboard only two ways. Number one, either command line arguments or buffer
reader. In Java 5 version, we have another approach scan up approach. What the scan approach? Can I directly have
the method scan up? First, I should have classer. Java is a object oriented
programming language. So, first what I should have class from that class? I have to create object. Then inside the
class we have methods. Call those methods by using this object. Understood my point? Huh? Now look at here in Java
1.5 version, Java 1.4 version, Sun Microsystem considering Java people
feeling that okay Java C people are feeling that C is easy, Java is very
tough. Okay. And moreover Java people are also complaining ar James by James
Kling by you are forcing me to write throws I exception. Did I get I exception at
runtime? No. Then why you asking me to write? Question number two.
Okay. Buffer reader B equal to new buffer reader of new input stream. Oh my god. This much lengthy statement object
creation. Why this? Okay. Buffer reader filter system in direct connection. Then
why in the middle conversion? Why you are asking me to convert? You do conversion yourself. Why this lengthy
statement? That is the another question. Rise. Next. Integer. in the BR read.
Okay, I want to convert to int. I should write, you should write. All developers
has to write same statement integer.parse intern. I want to convert to double. All developers has to write
double.parse double. All developers has to write boolean.parse boolean. Then when all developers are doing same work,
why you are forcing the developers to do? In the first chapter some micro system promised you don't write, I will
write. But now you are forcing me to write. Then James Kosling accepted okay Java
developers I understood your problem. Okay at a time let me solve the problem of C developers and also Java
developers. Then he has given one new class called scanner. What the name of
the class? Everyone tell me why the name is scanner.
Reader reader scanner. Scanner printter remember right? H uh scanf. Scan off is
not a scan by formatting. F stands for what? Formating based on the percentage D. Uh scan scanner. So buffer radar
class this lengthy statement is replaced with a small class called what? Scanner. Point number one. Then if I use a
scanner, I no need to handle IO exception. It is handling internally. As a developer, you don't need to do that.
Next in a equal to here integer parse into B read line. This lengthy statement
is a shortcuted with a single method called next int. SN scanner object you have to create
following by what sen create scanner object scanner SSN equal to new scanner
of hello I have to pass system.in system.in you have to pass. So created scanner object scanner snn equal to
system.in in following by now I have to call object dot I want read int what
method I have to call next I want read double come on guys please listen answer
uh I want read float long how many pars you have
seven par is not there now par is not there seven then how many next methods
are there 7 + Y8 y that dot + one I should read string
now string string brine by default reading string but now scanner method I
should have one more method for reading string now let's try to identify number one first method next bite second method
uh full method name next short next in uh next float next long next float Next
double. Next. No. Next car. Next boolean. Next.
What name? Next. Next. Only next. Only next. Also one more method is there.
Next line. Next. Next line. There are two methods for reading string data from
the keyboard. Next and next line. So totally how many methods in scanner class? Nine methods. Once again. Next
bite. Next short. Next yield. Next long, next floor, next double,
next boolean, next next slide. Totally nine methods are there. Based on the type of the data you want to read, you
have to call the respective method. Everyone understand? So tell me when we have already buffer reader class, why
scanner class is given because buffer reader has few problems. Problem number one, we must handle IO exception even
though it never occurred. Never raised or never occurred. Second, BR object creation statement is lengthy
and input stream object creation is confusion to the beginner. Next, we cannot read the value directly in its
original type. We must convert every value into its own primitive data type.
This conversion logic is common to all programmers repeated code. Third problem. All the people look at here.
Sorry. Hello people look at here on console I
am giving both 50 space 60 at a time press enter
number I enter 50 space 60 it is like a command line arguments application like
command line arguments application two values at a time I given press enter then 50 60 enter key came into system
from there comes to buffer reader h sorry input stream reader from there come to BR Listen when I call read line
method will it return only 50 now complete 50 space 16
I want only 50 I want only 50 is a BR read line method
buffer reader has that facility to return only first number return only second number
uh you have to write extra code you have to write extra code you have to write extra code observe when we enter
multiple values from console we cannot read each value individually. We must
develop some more additional logic to split all values, read each value and
convert it into primitive data. This extra logic we has to write, I should write, you should write, all people
should write. Then what is the solution to these four problems?
H scanner in Java 1.5 version, a new class
is given called scanner by solving all these problems. Uh now what is a scanner? Reading
runtime values by using scanner class. The class scanner is a newly given in
Java 5 version. Scanner class defined in Java dot which package buffer which
package. It is available which package util. If you want to use scanner class which
package I have to import now util package. Hence we must add import java.util.scanner
in our java file. Yesterday after class some people come and ask me sir why you have written import statement. I told
read notes and come tomorrow. Did you get clarity? Why you have added import
statement? If you want to access the classes available in another package,
you have to add import statement. As long as you are accessing the classes which are available in within our
folder, no need to add import statement. If you want to access the classes available in another folders, I have to
add what? Import statement. Uh BR class available in our package. No, that's why
we have to write what? Java.io import statement. Scanner class available in
our package. No, it is available in another package. So I have to write java.io.util.star
package import statement. Okay, then you must get one question. System class, string class are not available in our
package. Now as then how are are we able to access? They are available in a default imported package.
Default imported package for the package java.lang any class available in java.lang package
or default imported default imported you don't need to write import statement other than java.lang client any other
class you are trying to access you must add what import statement clear my point right uh then now hence we must add
import java util in our java file next scanner class defined with several
advantages what is that number one we can read values from keyboard directly in the original type we no need to use
wrapper classes parse method next we can allow user to enter either one value at
a time or multiple values with space operator like in command an argument application and our program can accept
each value separately. First value, second value, third value. I'll write a program and show you that. Okay. Next,
we no need to handle any exception. Next, object creation statement is short
and direct. We must create scanner object as below. Scanner SCN equal to new scanner of system.in. Look at that.
Is it easy for you? I want scanner object connected to wh no keyboard and no no proper you know further
conversions are not required. Next scanner class define several methods for reading values from the keyboard
directly in their original type. All method names are starts with the parser next. Next next wrapper class methods
are parse here. Next uh like what? public xxx next xxx and tell me parse
method flow is what? public xxx pass xxx here xxx is nothing but what primitive
data type name. Everyone understand? Tell me pass method throws number format exception. Suppose I want read int but
you are passing string then it will throw number format exception. Tell me next in method is responsible for
reading what int but you are entering what? String. Now input match not match not match what
input you are asking in but what you are sending string then it will throw new
exception what is that input mismatch exception sir should I handle it not required like I exception like number
format exception you don't need to handle it okay JVM will automatically handle it so finally what you need to do
previously you call passing of next int method passing of big line method in
that big line place what I have Write simply next in the method. Okay. If you pass wrong value, it will throw what
exception? Input mismap. As long as you are not passing wrong value, you will not get any exception. Totally. How many
methods available? Nine methods. Uh scanner class contains the below nine methods from the reading primitive value
values and string for reading primitive data type values and string. What is that? Next bite, next short, next in,
next long, next float, next double, next boolean, next, next length. Okay. Now, right. Then like parse care method here
in the scanner class also we don't have next care method. Hence by using scanner
class approach also we must read a character by using I will tell you I didn't explain it. Okay. Uh tell me now
all people are now get some information about scanner in your brain. Are you ready to write program now? Uh tell me
now. This is the program style. If you want to read methods, how can I read int
i1 equal to sn next next in method?
Whenever you call sec next in method. Now the next in method looking for integer in which object scanner in the
scanner object data available or not available not available then it will go to console and pass the program. You
enter a data then the data come to system.it from there come to scanner then scanner. Next in method is reading.
After reading still data data they are removed. Remove understood right. And then I call next line method. In the
next line I call next long method. Again next line method go to scanner. In the scanner data not available program
execution is pass. So if you want to read data this is the way you have to call. Okay. Now we are going to write a
program now. Ready? Huh? Develop addition class to read. Right. Right.
This entire notes slides I will upload. Okay. Huh? Don't worry about the notes. So just accept your mind what finally
listen listen finally what should be there in your brain. First command line how I have written program program next
buffer reader how I have written next scanner how I have written from here to here to here what are the differences
coming the entire theory you don't need to remember just for reference purpose theory is required but theory you don't
remember only remember what program command line arguments how buffer reader
how scanner how what the problem with the command line what the advantages with command line what the problem with
the buffer reader what the advantages with buffer reader what the problem with scanner. What are the advantages with scanner? Only that much you remember
extra points don't remember just notes purpose you can have. Clear my point. Uh write down write down write down working
with scanner
space.
Yeah, after diagram no need to write any space already points are there in I'll upload now continuation write
after diagram space directly write this question now tell me
now step numbers one step number one import statement right try try yourself
Import import data. Yes, yesterday one student written
import java.lang lang and yes is not working do that why you written import
space that's why you have to pronounce while writing you have to read the program also huh import space java dot
what the package util java dot util j u small letters package name all letters
are smaller dot which class you are accessing scanner s smaller capital
scanner semicolon everyone able to write first line why
you have written that line to tell to compiler in which package
scanner is available. Why you are writing import to tell to compiler
software in which package scanner is available? Okay. Now next write on class
after import statement class. Class what is the name of the class? Addition main method. Main method. Do I need to handle
any exception? No. Arshawadan I'm not repeating Rabbi you
have to write yourself why you are following me Sep why you writing dot after import
space order not dot I small letter uh main method throws I exception
required or not required not required close open main method uh what is the first statement in the main method why
you are writing this program for reading data from the keyboard using scanner. So first I have to connect it to keyboard.
Now for that which object I have to create scanner create scanner.
Scanner sen equal to scanner sen equal to new scanner of off
means parentheses you want to connect scanner to whom? Keyboard what the keyboard object write on system.in in
bracket system.in close bracket semicolon. People who practice yesterday, today you can write program
freely. If not practice yesterday, today you come just like that. Difficulty class. Every class is depending on
previous classes. Yes. Cap letter small letter. Capital letter. Uh next line. What I want? Uh
keyboard connection ready. You you contacted your friend. Ring ring ring ring. He lifted connection is open. What
is your mobile scanner? What is your friend mobile? System.in. And now tell me what you need to do. Hello. Hello.
Right. Hello is nothing but printing message. What? System.out.
Print. Print. System.out.print of double quotes. Enter first number.
Enter first number. online students. I'm not typing anything on the screen. I'm asking you to write
the code. Just I'm helping. Uh now the message is printed on the
console. You want to go to next line. Huh? In next what you want to do? Read the data and store it inside variable a.
I write down int equal to uh int equal to what I have to write sen dot. What is
the method I have to call? Next in I capital letter semicolon. Uh what
happened at this line number? Program execution is passed on the console until
you enter 10 enter key. Then next line method reading 10 returning to our
program stored in a. What next? What next sir? Second number I want
read. System.out of
enter SN O take a print. Don't take print.
System.out.print of double quotes enter SNO. Uh then next I want to read one
more number. One more number means repeat SEM. Next in method call one more time. int B equal to SN dot next line
semicolon int B equal to SN dot next int next next
in parenthesis semicolon uh now two numbers are available in the program what next I have to do add them in c
equal to a + b in c equal to a + b snn result close
main method close Yes.
Completed. Compile. Compile and execute. We will do that.
Executed successfully. Uh come on. Come on. Compile. Java C
addition on Java.class file is created. Edition.class.
Everyone come on. Compile and execute. Very important.
Class file created. Then execute. Java edition. Press enter. Then what happened? Uh write down enter first
number. Uh enter what the 10 enter key. Wait
10 enter key. Wait. Uh after 10 enter key what happen
after 10 enter key. What happen? 10 comes to your program. No. And store
it inside scanner. From there score it store it inside a right hand side a variable 10 a
10. And now next line. What next line? Enter
second number. Uh now you are entering 20. Enter key. Uh what happened? 20 will
come to scanner from the scanner. Next in reading and store it inside B. Create B variable with value 20. And next
finally finally C variable create CH
C variable with what value 10 + 20 30 then
then result now result will come flow you should understand result colon 30
everyone understand look at here this is the program I asked
program.
Both are not same.
Ali got confidence on writing program. Still confusion.
Spelling mistakes or space mistakes or grammatical mistakes should avoid
this program we write daily from today onwards. Today Thursday
tomorrow holiday you want
no holiday only we will give holiday for two things
sranti Christmas and only five festivals
No holy, no other things. Only for five festivals only holidays.
Noi, nothing. You are here for holidays purpose.
Huh? Listen, listen, listen, listen. This is the diagram, execution flow
diagram. Ready? This diagram important. Okay. Buffer reader later you can copy. Now
you have to write it. Write on down execution flow diagram.
Next month elections are there then go and give election and come
in what is the problem? Uh once let please follow me please
listen please follow me. What I am asking that only write first what should write console console with all edition
enter first number enter second everything no let us follow the steps okay write down console with empty dy
inside only console box console box only console box don't write
inside
okay then this Edition class JVM empty dub and connect
console to addition class system.in don't create scanner object don't create
scanner object only system.in
console addition class JVM box dand box okay and create connection between
console to system.in Don't write scanner object. Scanner object is not yet created.
Uh in console what first statement written? Java edition. Java edition. Press enter. Edition class JVM started
connected to system.in. Up to now understand everyone return
students wherever you are confusion please ask. Don't allow me to the next point.
Wherever you have confusion, immediately ask me, hey Vto, I'm not understanding. Okay.
Uh, now next up is what? Main method. Inside main method, what you created? Scanner SCN. Create SEN box. This corner
SN with the antenna only SCN. Excellent.
Only SN. Then create scanner object connecting to system.in. Listen system.in this circle
exactly only no need to connect. Okay. People are looking where connect extra line also came. No just you write uh
scanner object you create circle connected to system.in with the six to seven arrow marks. Empty empty
scanner object should connected to system copy also not doing properly. Extend
that circle extend that line to the circle. This scanner separately system
in separately if you write where is the data flow connection
copy don't show your calendar think like LK I should also take your
books and correct and give back uh now what happened up to now first
open console then Java edition then addition class JVM started connecting
with what system in then main method inside main method Scanner SEN variable
new scanner scanner object connected to system.in created. Up to now everyone
came. Next step. Enter first number message. Come come to
the console. Right. Enter first number colon. Enter first number colon. Uh next up in
a create a variable down. Give the space in the middle. A box. Look at the screen
and write down a box. You have to write C also. A memory created. And the next equal to
SEN dot next line. Uh write on SEN dot next line. Don't write arrow marks only.
Next line.
Uh what it is doing? What SC next line is doing?
Looking into scanner object. Write down this arrow mark line connecting to scanner and pause there. Don't write
written arrow mark only scanner write line into scanner you
also look your data not there data there not there not there when data not there what happened uh go to console write on
this blue color line underline cursor is blinking there
next one is what five enter type five press enter key
now data is moving into where now system in in a system.in arrow mark to
system.in But in five enter key both will come. Uh that coming into scanner object five
enter key. Hello students writing a
uh now tell me now next in method is activated. Now written arrow mark. Written arrow mark into scen with the
double quotes double quotes fire. Enter key will not come.
uh on this five in the scanner object on this five right strike line because data
is removed in a scanner object on this five right strike line that means data
is read and then written as five sen next line connecting to a variable five
everyone understand what I said catch any confusion uh can you do
work for next line. Uh what is the next line written in the program? Enter second number. Second number is
printed on console with underscore with blinking symbol. No blink symbol. No
blinking. Just enter second number printed. Then next B variable. B memory
create. Uh B memory create. Next. SEN. Next in
everyone look at here SSN. Next in again going into scanner object. Looking there
in the scanner object. Is there any data now? No data. Now data there.
Oh, five already read. No, you return already strike mark. Now already strike
mark. Right. Five is not there. Huh? In the scanner object data there are not there.
Next int method should read only in but along with int also
enter key characters came. Now understood next int method read only the
int and enter key characters are ignored. Tell me in the scanner object
enter key characters are still available. Remember it. This will torture you in the next program.
Next program will torture you. That's why I'm telling this enter key characters are still available. But
listen listen now this next in method looking into the scanner object found
the enter key characters. Next in method reading line or data data then it will
also ignore it. And now tell me when the strike mark is coming on this enter key for first in enter second in enter
second in now write on strike mark it ignore enter key characters and then
pass the program go here and blink blue color students understood.
So repeat once again very important point everyone talk along with me when I enter data the data plus enter key
characters both came into scanner object. Next method read only data left
that scanner leave that enter key characters in the scanner object as it is. Then who will remove that uh who
will remove the data inside next line. Okay. Next next method when
you call next time next method that will remove the data. Okay. And passes the program. Clear? Uh now second next in
method ignoring that enter key characters and then pass the program. Come on. Now here our flow is saying
type six enter key came into system.in
came into scanner object. All are writing correctly wrongly as you
like. correctly understanding and writing. Uh then six enter key reading
by whom now? Next in everyone. Everyone tell me here six enter key both strike
only six only six still scanner object contain enter key characters. Uh now
next line next reading the six only double quotes six and return to B variable stored in the B variable and
down next line into C equal to A + B. Now a value, B
value, two arrow marks adding and storing 11 in C.
Now the C value next line system.out.print Print result C. C value going to console. Result col.
H
uh completed I will prove every point you have learned. Okay. Every point I explain I
will prove that internals also I will prove that. uh now when I see scanner when I people say scanner oho it is
meant for reading primitive value as it is without writing any extra code then what the flow of execution scanner
connected to systemin and then next in method reading data okay clear let me
try this program in system always first I prefer you practice in
the nodes then we'll go for the system for learning a checking
Checking what is correct or wrong. This is yesterday buffer reader 04.
First program static nature. Second command line. Third system.in. read.
Fourth buffer reader. Copy paste.
Now scanner. I always learn. Listen. I never learn new topic as new topic
everyone. I never learn new topic as new topic. I always compare previous program
to the next program. What I learn previous program what I am learning in the new program. Previous program I
learn reading data from buffer reader. Now I'm reading data from scanner. So what the changes util dot scanner
addition main method in main method do I need throws? No remote. Uh connecting to
keyboard by using scanner. Scanner sen equals to new scanner of uh new
input stream reader place system dot indirectly uh it is directly connecting to
keyboard. Then any change here? No. Any change here? Yes. In place of integer.parsingbr
next in Okay. Uh next again enter second
number integer place sen sen parse into place next no argument
because it implicitly reading then int equal to result save it control one hope
you remember command prompt command line arguments only we have run from command prompt buffer reader and scanner
directly we can run from edit plus control 1 compile control 2 execute and
first number 10. Second number 20, result third.
Everyone understood. Can you write one more program? Now, uh I want to read
name. I want read name. To read name, which method I have to write?
Next or next line? Next method I can use or next line also I can use. Right?
Develop a program. Develop a program
to read to read name
of a person.
Read name of a person from the keyboard
by using scanner.
sir tomorrow class is very very important tomorrow I'm launching operators
today we are finishing this chapter okay reading runtime values tomorrow I'm launching operators how many people
don't know anything about languages programming language completely new Java is the first language
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Okay, people who know already some programming language C, C++
or Java already. Okay, people who don't know anything in Java, tomorrow onwards
they will enjoy a lot. People who already know C, C++, they
will start crying from tomorrow. No Hindu sir, two reasons. Reason number
one, they have a feeling already I know operators control flow statements. Why are you teaching again?
Second whenever I'm teaching people started comparing C++ with Java and
started confusing people who don't know anything with empty brain they will start enjoying because every point
taking directly so I'm requesting when tomorrow you are coming to class make your brain non C++ brain
okay now empty brain and come to the class uh now tell me what the first statement
import java dot util dot Star Ta scanner scanner star also you can write but not
recommended. Next
create scanner object scanner not scanner scanner sen equals to new
scanner. Are you practicing typing? Did I give typing website typing.com
daily 15 minutes you have to try? Are you practicing English communication skills daily 15 minutes half an hour for
typing on English otherwise you'll become baba baba in the enter room
uh then next what I write system do in scanner snn equal to new scanner of
systemin what happened here data reading are connected to keyboard connected to
keyboard now I have to prompt message prompt message and print message what I have to write Enter name colon. Enter
name colon. Next what I should write? int sorry
string name equal to what I have to call sen dot next only
use next method only use next method and then you write
system dot out dot print ln of double
quotes u enter do one thing you have written already
this line please give one line gap and then write this statement.
You entered plus name. Close main method. Close class. Save it.
Do you have any doubts in this program? Ask.
When I see this program, I am able to visualize this diagram. Are you? When I
see this program, I'm able to visualize this diagram. Okay. Console uh Java read name JVM started
system.inconnected scanner SNU scanner scanner object is created. Then enter first name. Enter
name is message printed. SN next. Now next method is looking into scanner
object. in the scanner object no data then pass the cursor in the cursor on the console then the user are forced to
enter a data okay control 1 compile successfully control 2
uh enter name cursor pass because of print message because of next method
call next method I'm writing hurry wow my name is coming in the program wow
uh now you have to encourage yourself. When you see output, wonderful program,
you have to encourage yourself. Okay? You have to say always wonderful program written. What is our learning? Just
writing programmer errors. As many more errors we find, remember if
you don't find compile time errors and runtime errors from your program that day you learn zero nothing. Listen now.
My name contain Har Krishna.
Huh? Press enter. Huh? Hurry only will come.
Har Krishna both will come up. Only hurry will come.
Using scanner you can read multiple values at a time with a space separator
and the next method return only first value that is a functionality why
that is a functionality scanner supports two functionality read one one value or
enter multiple values from this multiple values one one value read and return. So
next method will return complete line or return only first word first word. If
you want to read second word, if you want to read second word, you have to repeat the next method second
time. As many words are there, those many times you have to repeat next next next you have to repeat or you have to
you want read complete line at a time, you have to use what next line observed
name equal to sec next line. Save it. Control 1 compile.
Control 2 executed. Hurry Krishna Har
Krishna. Understood? Tell me what the difference between next and next line.
Both are meant for reading string data but next method returns only
first word whereas next line returns complete line. Okay, write it.
Write on this line also here. Output is Har Krishna.
Next return is only hurry. Next line returns. Har Krishna complete.
One line completely whatever you type everything it returns.
Next line meant for reading complete one line down right. The difference between next and next line is
The difference between next and next line is
next method returns next parenthesis have return. The difference between next and next
line is next method returns
only one word. Next method returns only
one word up to space up to space.
Whereas whereas next line method don't write
next to line of space operated method name. Whereas next line method returns
returns complete line
returns complete line until enter key characters.
Complete line until enter key characters
until enter key characters.
Okay. Now, now one more program I want you to write. Write a program or develop a program.
Develop a program. Develop a program
to read Develop a program to read
number and name of a student. To read number and name of a student.
Develop a program to read number and name of a student.
Now write on yourself. Write on write on yourself.
I already explained how to read number, how to read name. Now combination combination both
Everyone should rise up. How much you can you can write don't sit silently you want to become programmer right
statement
It doesn't contain any other person.
Every statement sensing, right?
System.out.print Print L don't write SOP ln sop ln don't waste ink
hello in the system don't write sop in system you have to type fully in not
write shortcuts
Friendship management. Find a person who is intelligent than you.
Remember, you want to become programmer, right? Programmer means you should always write program. If you're unable
to write program, find a best friend who can help you. If your friend is also waste fellow like you, cut friendship.
Find a person who is intelligent than you. It's very important. You want to grow up, find always better person than
you.
Sir go back to previous program once please everyone previous program once open
here what you enter har Krishna enter key right
listen everyone look at the screen everyone
stop writing look at Enter number you enter what? Hurry. Space Krishna. This is what? Enter key.
Next read only hurry. Next line read. Har Krishna including enter key
characters. Other why? Next line it should read
complete line. Complete line means what? Including enter key characters. Then the
scanner object enter key characters are remainder not remain not remain next in
method leaving the enter key characters but next line method reads including enter key characters okay now that's why
write on this this enter key enter key and flow of execution next method reads
only up to hurry next line method reads
complete data including enter key That
no when you press enter complete data will go to scanner. Huh? Next method reading from console from the scanner
object. Next method reading from console.
Sm next in or next line or any methods reading data from where? Scanner only.
When you press enter the data is coming into scanner object from the scanner object. Next method read only. Hurry
space Krishna is remained. It is there in the scanner object. Okay. Uh next
next line method what is doing? Uh the data coming to scanner complete data it
is reading. Okay.
Why remove it will be there in the scanner. How much read? How much data you write only? Hurry remaining space
and Krishna will be there in the scanner object. Okay. Now
everyone completed already. Okay. Let me try.
Uh now tell me in the real time applications we will read data only uh
we will read data only number type no only string type no both combination. So
how to read combination data that's what I'm trying to understand here. Listen, first I have to create scanner object.
SN equal to new scanner. Just compare the way you written and I
have written. Always remember once I write the sentence check yourself in
your notes also you have written same way capital letters small case spaces and comma semicolon everything I have
written. Now compare don't be lazy. Uh now scanner class if you want access I
should show the path. import java dot here I'm writing space dot why you don't
have that common sense like a blind people you are acting here
blind people are more intelligent than you people import Import what is there
read every character out import space don't write import space java dot util
dot java dot util dot scanner or star okay anything I can write tell yourself
speak yourself be uh be be a expressive person. Uh then connected to keyboard.
Next I should ask the user to enter number enter
number. Uh then I want read that number. Int number equal to s and dot next int.
What are you seeing here? s and dot next in method. Read the data
from the console. Read from the scanner. In the scanner data is available. No
program passed. Then on the console cursor blinking I entered one. Press
enter key. One came to scanner object. From the scanner object next reading one
and store it in number variable. Don't write just a program flow of execution of this line background what it is doing
also you should know. Okay. Uh then next system dot out dot
print of double quotes enter name. Uh
now how to read string name equal to s dot I have two options are there next
line. Uh if I use a next any problem no problem problem there
it read only first word but if I give the name with a space is it reading or not reading? Not reading. Okay
then what what I have to use here next line. Okay I will use that next
line. One line gap I am giving and then now down I am writing a message. After reading what you have to do printer
system.out Outer print length double quotes. You have entered
colon. Uh what you have entered number
plus number. Uh next name
colon plus name. Okay. Save it. Program ready. Read
number name. Uh now compile open command run Java C read name number name do Java
any syntax mistake no compile class file is created. Uh super next Java read
number name class main method scanner object connected to console enter number
message printed printed. Okay, cursor blinking because of next in next looking
into scanner object empty circle no data then cursor is blinking I entered value here 1.1 press enter now the data going
into scanner object 1 enter key 1 and store it inside scan uh number variable
next line enter name uh then printed next line uh next method call next method called pass and asking to enter
data I'm entering data hrishna Uh
press enter. Huh? It read and return only. Hurry.
No, I want read complete data, complete line. What should I do? Okay. Next
method has a limitation. It can read only one word from the given line. I
want complete name because name may contain space also. So name equal to I
should call next line. Okay. Everyone sleeping
ready
understood. You have to eat full food. Tell me 2 hours I am completely eating your energy now.
By the time 11:00 you are going out 9 you are coming with the full energy 11
you are going out with full of loss of energy. No doubt in that 2 hours I will torture you 2 hours completely your
brain and body will get tired that much you are working in the class that's why pull it gym work will do here uh now
everyone look at here ready control one compile everyone ready
control 2 one ready press enter what happened
one stored number variable then enter name. Next
line method is looking into scanner object data. No pass for reading Har
Krishna. Yes or no? Yes or no? Yes or no? Yes sir.
program execution passed not
next method when I call passed next line method when I call not passed why
because Java doesn't support next line method call with another methods
okay now okay now
Listen, it's happened in Amir. It happened in Amir. One student ask his faculty. It is
shared by you know my student only. There is a problem with the next line method when you call with other methods.
Okay. I know the reason why it is passed because of my internal memory diagram.
Okay. I know everything what is happening background. I know it. Then my
students went to the hostel. Generally all people are living in a is interact with other student. Then other student
learned this topic. His faculty has explained only with next method. Then he
tried it. Compile execute and uh now it
is coming one and uh hurry Krishna. Uh now what is coming only? Hurry.
Then the student went to the next day to the class and asked his faculty sir next
is not reading uh complete sir I want with complete two words what to do use
next line. Okay next day he used next line method. Okay save it. Uh now
control one compile. This is a very important point sir. The
thought process one program execution is not passed. Then the student went to next day asked the faculty sir program
execution not waiting sir to enter my name directly is terminating Java
doesn't support Java doesn't support then how to read
name sir use next method uh okay sir okay use next method save it 1 compile
uh control 2 execute one ah program execution passed then what what about My
Krishna with spaces sir JavaS doesn't support with spaces read by using underscore
B will you accept it sir in the project with the space how
user will enter sir that's why read each name separately enter first name enter second name enter last name
no sir I want with respect java doesn't support I'm saying java
supports his brain is not supporting That's why I'm telling you don't l Java
with automatically don't write just a comment this line connected to keyboard how it is
connected what is happening next line next in method reading data from keyboard how it is reading is it reading
from the keyboard or from the scanner scanner if it is reading from the keyboard what I should write system in not SEN dot so
the details completely if you learn you never face any problem whenever you are
finding this kind of tricky points you can easily find the solution. No one will teach you all these points in the
company sir. You have to analyze every s everything yourself. So now I'm giving you 24 hours of the time to you guys why
program execution is not paused here with the next line method. You have to
find out already I have explained already I have explained. Huh?
Excellent. Because of enter key characters available in the scanner object. Listen because of one because of
one we have entered one not one going enter key also going
uh now the next in the reading only what one uh enter key characters are still
available in the scanner object. Now that enter key characters are reading my next line
when the program execution is passed. That's point I'm stressing from warning from the diagram. When program pass when
program pass when there is no data in the object. Uh now because of previous next in method I call enter key
characters are left in the scanner object. When you call next line method is it going to console a scanner object?
Uh in the scanner object it found what enter key characters are available. Okay. Then it reading enter key
characters and return to our program. Before enter key character do you have any data? No data. Then what is written
to our program? Empty string will be written. What written? Empty string will be written. Observe the memory diagram
and tell me I explained you only explained the problem solution. Who found? I found
you problem. Who found? You only found is because of automatic with memory diagram.
Of course, some students not found they slowly understand. No problem. Time will be taken. But how much deep you analyze
the subject that much easily you can find any problem solution. Look at the diagram now. Why program execution is
not passed? Where is this? Uh look at this diagram. When I call next in method, what you
send? One not one. Enter key. Then next in method reading complete data. Now only one only one. Uh no no no no no no.
Uh now look at here. Now look at here. Now one. And here
program execution is not passed to read name value. Hence we didn't get the name value display on the console. Why why
why
I want I want uh this diagram will be more clear. Look at here. Here what
happened here. Now scanner object is connected. Now I have entered what? One enter key 1 K. Next in method reading
only what one and return to the program and stored in the scanner object still
we have enter key characters everyone visualizing now uh when you call next line method what it is doing it is going
into scanner object wow it's a data available what the next line method has to do read one line how next line method
knows one line I have to read because of enter key characters enter key characters found before enter key
characters do you have any data no data then it taking what empty string unwritten and stored in our program.
That's why program execution is not passed. Then what is the solution to this problem? Simple solution. Make
scanner object empty. Uh now call scanner SEN next line method two times.
First next line method for reading first entry key characters. Okay. Now
remaining entry key characters first time. Second time you call next line method one more time and assign second
line to the name variable. Then tell me second time when you call next line method do you have data now? No data now
no data then program execution is fast. Okay let me show you in the system now.
Uh after next in method call. If you want to call a next line method I have
to call next line method how many times? Two times. SN dot next line you have to call here assign to any variable or no
variable or no variable leave it empty for what purpose reading okay
reading enter a key characters and making
and making scanner object empty and making scanner
object empty. Now you are calling next line second time for reading name. Save
it. Look at here program. Now compile successfully. Uh executed. Observe the
flow. Now enter first number. Sorry enter number message is printed. Then
now I entered one. Press enter. One not one read by next. Enter key characters
are read by next line. Then scanner object is empty. Now and now the program execution is passed.
This program execution is passed because of first next line method or second next line method. Second next line method.
Now I'm entering H space K. Look at there. H space K coming or not? Yes. So finally whenever you wanted to read data
from the console number and name combination with the next line method.
How many times I have to call next line method? Two times. First time for reading enter key characters. Second
time for reading our name data. Understood now? uh so don't get trapped by saying the message automatically each
line you have to understand what is happening background okay now uh write on down just question right
what is the problem of what is the problem of
sen nextline method and solution what the problem of sen dot
next line method and solution
I will upload notes with this image everything. Okay. Now up to today whatever the points we have discussed
all slides notes I'll upload. Okay. Now and next I want you write this notes I
want write this points these points this notes solution to scanner.explain method
call and this diagram everything you have to write clearly. Okay. Huh. So by tomorrow coming to class, can I expect
all the people are have confidence on using scanner? Okay. Tomorrow we are going to learn one more topic is there.
Reading character from the keyboard. Do you have any predefined method to read character from the keyboard? No. How to
read character? We will learn and we will develop one project complete project object oriented project. Then
we'll go for next chapter operators. Tomorrow class is very important. Conclusion on the complete concept. We
learn last one one a month 10 days and then we are entering into the next topic. Don't miss tomorrow class. Very
important. Thank you. That's all for today class and people who are asking for Google classroom wait.
Chavan why you want Google classroom now
you are 116 number where you enrolled head.
Yeah. Check with your admin.
Check with your class admin. He will help you.
Sorry that no problem.
Next enter. Next is meant for reading string
characters not line characters. It is meant for not reading complete line. It is meant for reading only characters. So
that's why it is reading up to only characters. Next line it will not read. I mean line enter key characters it will
not read. It will ignore it and pass the program. But next line meant for reading line. So it will consider oh one line
empty line he entered. He want to enter empty. That's why it's not it's considering. Okay.
Next that's what I'm saying next meant for reading line reading characters sir huh
there are no characters line is not a character regular next method is meant for reading
regular characters it is not meant for reading entry key characters
next method is not meant for reading line it is meant for reading characters.
When there is no characters, what it will do? It will wait. You want to learn core Java. Advance Java class is going
will you join? Wait outside. You ignore it and wait outside. C Java class is going on. Then you will come inside.
Right. Next line method for reading line. How it know it is a line. Enter
key. Understand?
Scannage
package
coming class. Okay. Coming classes understand
sorry next line. Alpha numeric number should read by using string. Next line. Normal data by
using
Enter
next
data. So after that any number
next
we are using
Number
spaceologist.
Enter. Next.
Next.
Next. Next. Next. problem. It will read only
complete name only first word complete line
next
string command line. So R of zero
but it only requ not required string already coming data as a string now then pass is not required
write the string of
online students any more questions
next method will not take only first name that is your mistake save it and compile Hey,
hey, Adam.
Bye.

