ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Yeah, last class we have completed a
project on previous all six chapters. Uh hope you all remember what you have
learned. Uh look at here I have updated Google classroom
reading runtime values chapter first. What is okay here I have updated
all points about reading runtime values from keyboard. I
can read runtime values from keyboard also from files. So first we are understanding from keyboard.
Uh first what we discussed I have a program with values then is it a good idea? No. Always execute with the same
values result 30. Always execute with same student values HK. Then what is the
right right way? We have to read values from keyboard from the end user. For
that what are the different approaches? We have 10 approaches. Okay. We have 10 different approaches we have. Then first
we should understand what is hardcoded value, what is hardcoded application. These the nodes what the problems with
the hardcoded values and hardcoded application. Then solution runtime values read values from end user. Next,
now what is the runtime value and runtime values application? Then advantages of runtime or dynamic
application. Then uh summary once again runtime values all
points at one place. Then the small project and the realtime working from the screen we are reading values and
storing in the student object. Then now if you wanted to read values from the
keyboard and store it in the object, what are the steps we have to follow? Three steps. Step number one, how can we
connect it to the keyboard? How many ways we can connect to keyboard? 10 ways. How can we read values from the
keyboard? Okay, by using those approaches, by using the internal methods. Once you read any value from
the keyboard in any of the 10 approaches. Repeating again once you read value from the keyboard in any of
the 10 approaches the data comes into the program or the data sent from the keyboard into program as what type of
value string. Why as a string? Because inside string I can represent all types
of values in their own original type without changing the type. I can represent them. Okay. After reading the
values from the keyboard we should convert them into original type. How can I convert them into original type
wrapper classes? Okay, next. So this is first introduction to reading
runtime values. So then how many ways we can convert six uh 10 ways. The first
approach, first approach is what? Command line arguments. Okay. The command line arguments related all
points I have uploaded. So reading runtime values from command line. What is the meaning of runtime value? The
value reading at runtime program execution time is called runtime value. What is the command line? What is
command line? What is command line arguments? What is the command line arguments? Application uh notes and the
diagram. Then following by what how can command line arguments are passed into application explanation. Then next uh
the complete flow of execution diagram. Then next uh how can we read command
line arguments in the program arcs of zero arcs of one. Then can we assign those values directly to the variable?
No compiler throw error. Then how can we convert command line arguments to their own original type? By using wrapper
classes. Okay. Then it is a programmer responsibility to convert arcs of zero. We have to write what using how many
wrapper classes are there? Eight. Except character class. In all classes we have parse parse method. Uh now how to call
this parse method? Integer dot double dot long dot. Then how can we read
character? Do you have any direct method for reading character? No. So we what we have to use string class carrot method.
I have to use how the string class carrot method working diagram I already explained again notes also given. How
can I read boolean value? Directly parse boolean. Then I want to read value from
the keyboard. Convert all the eight values into the primitive value. Bite. Parse byte short. Integer parse in
long.parse long float. Float double. parse double arcs of zero dot carrot of
zero then boolean dot parse boolean rule when you are calling parse method you should pass the value exactly as the
type of the value if you pass a different type of value you'll get number format exception suppose integer
parse of array leads to number format exception okay then final code is this
and this is the execution flow so this is the complete story about and next I gave you the question uh in the program
Java hi hello how are you how many arguments are passed only two arguments. So this is the story about command line
arguments application. Then the second approach we learn about buffer reader. Uh why we came to buffer reader? What
the problem with the command line arguments application? Then what the solution of command line arguments application buffer reader. Then uh how
can we what the difference in reading values from command line and buffer reader. Next reading runtime values using buffer
reader explanation. And next following by the steps to develop program by using buffer reader and this is the program
difference from command line arguments to buffer reader program difference
right and next following by the buffer reader program diagram how it is executing background then following by
differences between command line arguments application and buffer reader application with this we understand
buffer reader then what the problems in buffer reader uh we have to write lengy code Then I want shortcut code. For that
the solution is what? Scanner. And then we have understood third approach. What is that? Scanner. What are the points we
discussed about scanner? Scanner is a predefined class used for reading values as it is. Okay. No need to do wrapper
classes usage and conversion. For that we have uh scanner class contain nine
methods. Seven methods for reading primitive values. Two methods for reading string like parare. Next care
method is also not available in scanner class. Here also we have to convert the data by using carrot method. Okay. Eight
methods calling also I have shown here. Then next first point we understood read the two integers and add program memory
diagram. Okay. And next we understood using scanner we can read multiple
values. Why the method name starts with the next? When will a program execution passed for sen. Next method every time
pass there and data not there passed. data not there. When data is not there in the scanner object, data program
execution is paused. Uh why class name is a scanner? Why the method name starts
with the next? Why not read? I want read value. So read in read along read float
read double must be there. Why the method name is next? Why method name is next? Because scanner
will read only one time at a time or multiple values at a time. Multiple values but one value only it will
return. it return the 10 move the cursor to the next value without passing the
program reading the next number. Okay, for that I gave one small program here like uh uh now look at here I have
asking you to enter numbers on the console you have entered 50 627 all 5 6
7 will go to scanner object next in method reading first number five second next in method reading six third next in
method reading seven. So without pausing first next in method program execution
is paused. Second and third int method program execution passed or not passed? Not pass because already data available
in the scanner object. Next develop a program to read a number and a name from
the console. Number read next in method. Name to read. I have two methods. Next method and next long. If I use a next
long method program execution passed or not passed not passed. Why not pass?
Because next line method method for reading line already line is available in the scanner object because of new
line character. Uh now what is the problem with next line method? Why program execution not paused for
sen.extline method. I gave the explanation here. Uh and also execution
flow diagram also I have given here. Whatever I have explained only you have to follow it. The next what is the
difference between next and next line method. Next method read only one word. Next line method read complete line.
Next method will not read enter key characters. Next line method will read enter key characters also. All points I
have mentioned two cases are there. First you call next line then next. Second time you call next and then next
line. So what the difference what is output flow also you have to practice. So these all the points about scanner
class we have successfully understood. And then following by project on uh previous all six chapters we completed
six chapters on all six chapters we have developed the program student java sir where six chapters are there uh class
creation variables data types variables different types of variables user
defined data type next following by college class first chapter reading
first chapter essential statements structure of the program okay and the next object creation of scanner object
creation of our user defined a class and then uh reading the values from the keyboard, storing values in the
variables, right? And then finally printing. Uh what is the memory diagram of this program execution flow? This is
the memory diagram. So everything whatever we have learned up to now every points got revised. So tomorrow is
holiday. So what you have to do revision of first chapter to this
chapter. If you don't do revision next week will be horrible. Clear? Now let's start the next chapter. Chapter number
seven. Ready.
Java operators.
Java operators.
Once upon a time long long ago. Hello. Once upon a time long long ago
last week yesterday long long ago. Now uh we
discussed a chapter called language fundamentals building logic. Remember uh
as part of language fundamentals we have learned something like this. The primary operation in the Java program is what?
Storing values. In every program as part of one operation we we will perform four
act four activities. First one reading and storing values
performing validations and calculations controlling flow of execution throwing
errors if given values are wrong. In previous chapters data types and reading
runtime values we completed reading and storing values. Now we have to learn
performing validations and calculations by using what chapter operators. Okay.
Now if you understand this flow flow diagram one more time. Uh now what the first activity reading and storing input
values from other programmer or from keyboard. Did we learn both points?
From other programmer as a argument method parameters and argument from keyboard using scanner.
Now we have to go for what? Validate those values are right or wrong. If
right I have to perform what calculation. If wrong I have to throw exception. First of all we have to do
validations and calculations. If you understand then easily you can understand how to throw exceptions.
Okay. Write down continuation. First point as part of one operation.
As part of one operation. As part of one operation
implementation. As part of one operation implementation.
As part of one operation implementation,
we must we must perform
four activities. We must perform four activities.
Number one. Number one,
reading and storing values. reading and storing values from other
programmer from other programmer
or from keyboard from other programmer or from keyboard.
Second, performing validations and calculations.
performing validations and calculations.
performing validations and calculations.
Third, controlling flow of execution.
Controlling flow of execution.
Fourth, throwing exceptions.
Throwing exceptions. If given values are
throwing exceptions if given values are wrong.
Throwing exceptions. If given values are wrong.
Next bullet point. in a previous chapters.
in previous chapters.
Data types in previous chapters data types,
variables, array,
class object and
RV. And uh RV reading runtime values chapters.
Write down RV reading runtime values chapters.
Vent we learn.
We learn reading. I mean we learned reading and storing value in the
program. We learn reading and storing value in the program.
We learned reading and storing values in the program.
Next point in this chapter
operators.
In this chapter operators,
we will learn. In this chapter operators,
we will learn about what
performing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
We will learn this chapter. We will learn. Okay. Performing
validations and calculations.
Performing validations and calculations.
Okay, is everyone clear? What are learning in this chapter? Okay. Now,
Okay. In this chapter we have to learn listen first. Okay. Operators in Java,
Java operators whatever need of this chapter complete. What is the need of this chapter? In this chapter we are
learning performing validations and calculations in a Java program. Next,
what is an operator? What is an operant? What is an expression? First, you have
to understand this is the first point. Second, why an operator? Why operate? Y
expression. Simply, what is an operator? Y operator. What is an operant? Y operent. What is an expression? Y
expression. First point. Second point. Next, what are the different things we can perform? I mean, what are the
different things we can pass as an operant? You have to learn that point. Next, types of operators based on
functionality and based on operants. Types of operators. We have different
types of operators based on functionality and based on number of operants it can take. Then how many
operators Java supports and their group name. Every operator comes under one group. What is that group name? Next
Java 8 new operator lambda operator. Next operator precedence and associivity
table. Suppose if you take in maths in maths you have mass ruler. If I prepare
an expression a into b by c plus d into 10. Okay something a big operator with
all arithmetic operators. Can you evaluate as you like left to right? No. You have to follow some precedence
priority like that in Java also operators are having precedence and associivity table. You have to
understand then sample program on each operator entry questions. OCJP OCP bit
these are the 10 points we have to learn as part of this chapter okay write
first point I will first need of this chapter syllabus topic list table of content TOC
what is an operator why operator right and as I'm saying what is an operator
why operator first first one I written need of the chapter first one need of the chapter
need of the chapter Second point,
what is an operator? Comma why an operator?
What is an operator comma y an operator? Second,
third point. What is an operand? What is an operand?
comma y operent.
What are the different things
we can use as a operend? What are the different things we can use
as an operend?
Next third or fourth fourth point. What is an expression?
What is an expression? Comma why an expression?
What is an expression? Comma why an expression.
Fifth. Sixth. Fifth. Types of operators.
types of operators. Types of operators
based on based on their functionality
based on their functionality and based on
based on the number of operants it accepts.
And based on number of operants it can accept.
And number of operants it can accept.
Okay. Next. Remember thank you so much for attending today
class. Okay. And then sir you are saying thanks
to me. Yeah, I should say because next classes if I want me to teach you effectively
today class you should not miss. Okay, maximum students come to today class. Thank you so much for that and
you sacrificed your festival and you came to the class for that I should say thank you. Second point never miss a
Saturday class and Monday class. If any appointments are there, urgent
work is there, then uh plan it between Tuesday to Friday. Tuesday to Friday if
you miss class doesn't much you don't miss it because continuation classes will be there on Friday, Tuesday to
Friday. Saturday and Monday are very important classes. Generally I will
start new chapter on Saturday.
Bad behavior. No all people complete chapter by Saturday
but I will start the new chapter on Saturday. Why sir? Because I want
continuity. I want the students who are interested. I wanted to see how many
people really dedicated their free time and life to the Java. I wanted to see I
should give more benefits to the people who are sincere now. Saturday, Sunday, Monday I planned for my appointments sir
and you are not eligible to come to IT industry. IT industry who can come only dedicated people only can come who
sacrifice their personal life only can come first priorities of my personal life
then you cannot come to IT industry you have to see hardware industry some other industry only you are suitable software
industry no holiday no Saturday no Sunday no Monday no lover's day no mother's day okay so you have to first
priority to IT industry then only you can be in IT industry even IT training industry also same so for that you have
dedicated your life determination your hard work and determination only can give you success that's why I should say
thanks to you all people for attending class and please maintain the same interest till our course completed don't
miss at any courses Saturday and Monday these two are very important Saturday we
are launching new chapter and Monday continuation Tuesday onwards the topics whatever learn we are doing practicals
clear okay nice attend the class continue the class types of operators. The next sixth point uh how many
operators Java supports? Next question. How many operators Java
supports?
How many operators Java supports and their group
and their group name and their group name and their group name.
Next uh go back to expression point
found expression. Uh what is expression? Y expression comma types of expressions
comma types of expressions types of expressions
that is very very important give star marks that side this side heading star star star very very very important star
star star types of expression topic is very important
next seventh point write down as a separate point no problem Java 8 version
New operator arrow
Java 8 version new operator lambda operator arrow arrow symbol you write hyphen right
angular bracket down you write note note
double colon double colon symbol you write dot dot dot dot four dots
Double colon you know right colon two colons you write double colon is not a
operator double colon is not a operator it is a separator many people are feeling it is
a operator it's not operator it's a separator next eighth point
operators precedence operators precedence
and associative ivity spelling look at here and write not associivity
associivity pronunciation is little difficult
operator precedence and associivity tables
one table is there you have to remember the table then only pass entries
next ninth point sample program on each operator
sample program on each operator operator sample program on each operator.
Last point, interview OCA and OCP questions.
Uh in operators, there is no project as such. Okay, project means only object- oriented program. Here only small
programs. So these are the 10 sections we have to learn.
Looking like simple but little horrible.
Okay. Done. Everyone ready? Here. So, first point, what the need of this chapter? What are learning in this
chapter? In this chapter, we are learning different operators available in Java to perform validations and
calculations. No problem. Write one more time. Search in Google what is OCA.
If you want full form of OCA, OCP, search in Google. Write down. First point in this chapter we will learn
quickly. In this chapter we will learn different operators available in Java.
Different operators available in Java.
different operators available in Java to perform
to perform validations and calculations
to perform validations and calculations.
Full stop. Second bullet point. Second bullet point. Validations means
Validations means checking.
Checking given number or object. Checking given
number or object. Checking given number or object. Valid
or not. Valid or not.
Next bullet point. Calculations means
calculations means performing arithmetic operations.
Performing arithmetic operations
with the given values. Performing arithmetic operations with
the given values. and generating result
performing arithmetic operations on given values
and generating result
down. For example, for example,
write on that program.
For example,
See assignment
don't show your talent. Some people has written only program sit silently.
There are underlines also there. Who will write those underlines? I should come and write in your notes. Blind
fellows, halfbrain fellows.
When you get that mindset all people written only programs sit silently why I have written underlines there that's
what previous point to next point no connection in your brain. What is the
previous point I told? What is the meaning of validation? Operators are meant for what? performing
validations and calculation. What the meaning of validation? Checking given number is valid or not. What the meaning
of calculation? Performing arithmetic operations to generate result. For example, and example what I'm going to
tell in the example. Where is a validation? Where is a calculation? I'm going to show you that. So I have shown
and underline neatly. Uh you are writing only program. only program is my responsibility
clearly I have written boxes underline box class inside class what is there method inside method what is there
validations calculation where is validation not if
listen if is not meant for validation if is meant for taking decision
validation conditioner. If condition true, execute this. If
condition false, don't execute this. That is if is not meant for validating. If is meant for taking decisions, who
will validate? Operator validate. What is that operator? Greater than, less than,
double. Understood? So tell me in the if parentheses using operators are
validation operators are calculation operators are validation operators logic part using operators are what
calculation and tell me now here plus is performing validation calculation or storing
calculation who is storing C is not operator
C is a variable it is taking value give me I will store who is giving
not equal. So that is assignment that is not equal to operator. That is
assignment operator. Equal to operator is the double equal to. Understand the confusion masters. Equal
to singly assignment. Single equal should not call as equal to. You should pronounce it as what? Assignment.
Assignment. Who is equal to operator? Double equal. If you want compare, equal
means what? Compare. Now this and that both are equal. Yes. Double equal to operator I want to store then which
operator assignment. So tell me here totally how many operators we have used? Oh here here in this program totally how
many operators you have used? Five greater than double n greater than.
Okay. And next plus assignment. Totally five operators I have used. In that five
operators assign greater than and double equal to we are using for validation and
plus is for calculation. Assignment for storing. Understood? Write down.
In above program in above program
we want to add wait. In above program, we want to store uh we
want take and store. We want to take and store
two integers. Two integers.
We want to take and store two integers
as a argument.
from this method call uh from from other programmer
from other programmer.
Hence we used
Hence we use parameters. Hence we use parameters.
Understand this is current chapter previous chapra in bracket previous chapter
in bracket R and S. What is the meaning of R and S?
Wonderful. Marvelous. Read and store. Bracket R and S.
Capital R and capital S read and store.
Next bullet point.
We want only We want only
add positive numbers. We want add only positive numbers.
Comma. So we perform validations.
So we perform validations
by using the operators
what? Greater than and and
operators greater than comma double end.
Double and symbol.
Okay. Next third point
for for adding for adding those two numbers
we used calculation operator plus.
We use calculation operator plus.
Calculation operator plus.
Next for storing result.
For storing result. Uh next point or same point your wish.
For storing result we have used
assignment operator.
Assignment operator what is that?
Equal to equal to write on assignment operator equal to uh please look at here
pointing to this da underline write on validations
pointing to plus you write calculation.
pointing to this equal to right assignment.
1 2
validation calculation assignment.
So this is the complete idea on this chapter what you are learning. So tell
me as part of one logic development how many activities we will do? Three.
As part of one logic development this is the logic addition logic. As part of logic development how many activities we
do? Three. Number one validation calculation assignment. I'm not talking about what
do you call operation. Operation starts with the story and then next logic. As
part of logic second operation we will do three things. Validation, calculation and storing. Tell me validations always
we will do. No calculation always, storing is also always. So first step
need of the chapter understand. So did you get clarity on what is validation? Whenever I say validation you visualize
less than or greater than double and double. When I say calculation you have to visualize plus or minus. Whenever I
say store you visualize assignment. Okay. Now next
now let's go to the next point. Now and tell me what is the next point. Need of the chapter completed. What next? What
is a operator? What is the use of operator? Tell me here. Where is operator?
Greater than operator. Double end operator. Greater than operator. Plus operator. Assignment operator. Tell me
what is operator? Greater than is what?
Symbol of order. Symbol. Tell me what is operator? A symbol. Okay. What is
operator? A symbol. Every symbol is operator. Tell me. Open bracket. Symbol.
Closed bracket. Symbol. Semicolon. Symbol. Every symbol is operator. No. What is operator? An operate. A symbol
that performs one operation that performs a validation or
calculation or assignment operation then we call it as operator. Clear my point?
Listen. New. There is a word called what? New. Is new a operator or is just
a word? New. New. New. Example. E1 equal to new.
Example. New is also a operator. What this operator? Object creation operator. So
what is operator? A symbol or a word that performs one operation in the
program is called one operator. Okay. What the use of operator? A operator is
used for performing either validation or calculation or assignment operation in
the program. Clear my point? Right. Next question. What is an operator? What the use of operator?
What is an operator? What the use of operator?
A symbol or a word.
A symbol or a word.
A symbol or a word that performs
that performs one operation
that performs one operation in a program.
is called in a wait wait wait wait wait wait wait in a program as part of logic
in a program as part of logic
as part of logic is called is called
an operator an operator for example
for example plus minus minus
underline plus or minus underline
plus no one underlining plus comma minus one underline one line okay next comma
less than greater than less than greater than double and
double or double and two vertical lines
underline all four one underline comma. Next
assignment operate equal single equal underline comma
new n a w new new comma listen instance of instance of no
space in the middle in n t a n c instance of no space in the middle
underline total new and instance is both total one
word one underline. So tell me plus or minus are what operators? Calculation
operators less than or greater than validation operator. Next uh uh uh equal
to assignment new operator instance of operator again calculation and
validation operator new keyword create the calculation object creation instance of validation operator. Okay coming
classes I'll tell you. So totally what is an operator? A operator is nothing but a symbol or a word. New is a word
instance of a word. The only these are two words are there as a operator. Remaining all are symbols. Okay. Next
down next bullet point by using an operator.
By using an operator. By using an operator. As part of logic
development. As part of logic development.
As part of logic development, we will perform
as part of logic development. We will perform three operations.
three operations. Number one, Number one
uh any order you can write. Let us follow this order. Assignment operation.
Number two, validation operation.
Number three, calculation operation. Number three, calculation operation.
Number three, calculation operation. Listen sir, assignment should be the
last sir. Or if you want to perform validation, first of all, you have to store value in the variable. Huh? The
storing purpose which operator I have to use assignment. So this assignment will come only one time or two time or two
times before validation after calculation. Two times will come. Okay. Assignment input validation calculation
result storing result again assignment will come. But always logic starts with what? Assignment. Assignment validation
calculation. Clear? So what is operator? Operator is a word or a symbol that is
that is meant uh that performs one operation. A operator is used for
performing three operations as part of logic, assignment, validation,
calculation. Everyone clear? Next point. What is a operend?
What is an operend? And what is the use of an operend?
What is an operend? What is the use of an operend? Uh both together I'm going
to tell now. So tell me what is an oper? Oper is
nothing but value. Suppose if you look at here in a equal to 10. Now here what
is the operator? Operator assignment. To perform this
assignment operation I need some person. That person is nothing but value and
what variable. A value or a variable that is passed as a input to an operator
to perform operation is called what operate. So repeat once again a value or
a variable that is passed as a input that is passed
as a input to perform operation of a operator. Suppose you want to perform
assignment operation then I have to pass 10 as a input. Huh. Uh, next I want to
perform validations whether this value is less than, greater than, positive, negative. Then what I'm passing here?
Variable. So a value or a variable that is passed as a input to perform one
operation is called what? Oper. Look at that. A value or a variable. You can
write variable also. A value or a variable that is passed as an input to an operator for performing assignment,
validations and calculation operations is called operin. Is clear? Ready?
A value or a variable. Have a written question. Uh, a value or a variable
that is passed as an input that is passed as an input
to an operator to an operator is called to an operator
is called operend is called operend.
I repeat once again. A value or a variable that is passed as an input to
an operator is called operand. Look at here I am giving 10 as a input to
assignment operator for storing. So 10 is a operand. Here a is given as a input
to the greater than operator for performing validation. So here a is what operand. Uh if you take here plus
operator I gave variable and value as a input to the plus operator. So what
these two are operants understand here this oper operator sorry this operend is
given for performing what operation assignment here validation here calculation down write down a operator a
operend a operend is used for
a operend is used for executing a operator a operend is used for executing
an operator. An operand is used for executing
an operator to perform to perform to perform assignment
validation and calculation.
Calculation
operation. Calculation operations.
Answer my question. Can I use only operators in a program? Can I use only operator
plus? No. Compiler ask what the use of this plus? I want to add two numbers.
Then the two numbers are operants. I cannot use only one operator. I cannot use only operent. I should use both
operator and operand together to perform one operation. Okay. So you cannot use
both individually. You cannot see operator separately and operent separately. Both together only we can
see. Okay. Clear? Uh for example, for example, write on these three lines
as it is. Don't write that blue color all those
things. Okay. First you write program as it is.
Bangari Nandini already there in front of you same points I'm reading
right on this program for example
Underline that 10 first first assignment operation 10 is operand. Second
operation a and zero operent. Third operation a and 20 operants
after writing program write down that arrow mark and underline and read yourself. 10 is passing as input to
assignment. So it is a operand. A and zero are giving as input to greater than
operator. They are operents. A and 20 are passing as operants to the
plus. So they are uh a and 20 are passing as input to plus operator. So
they are operants.
Write on that blue color arrow marks also into that
Okay. In theory point underline input to operand
the input is nothing but operand. According to mass we call input.
According to program we call Java program or C program we call operate. Operand.
Are you writing again Ray?
Why again already in the previous statement before this
program you have written already underline input oper
uh down to that program write down to this program write down
to that program write
In above program
in above program, the value 10
and the variable A, the value 10 and the variable A are
operants Because they are passed.
Because they are passed as
input to input to operators.
Input to operators.
Look what we call this this line in = 10 what
we call I'm not asking what it is performing I'm
asking what we call inta equal to 10
variable creation statement in equal to 10 what we call
variable creation statement what we call a greater than zero
Okay, validation statement. Excellent. What we call a + 20
calculation statement. Based on their functionality, we say variable creation statement, validation statement and
calculation statement. There is a one common word to all these things. A operator oper a operator and operate.
Operator oper. So what we call expression? Do you have
expression? Are you exhibiting expressions on your face? No. Smile expression, sad
expression. Okay. Uh so now what is an expression? What is an expression? a
equal to 10 is an expression. a greater than zero is an expression. a + 20 is an
expression. Then what is an expression? A combination of uh operators and
operants is called an expression. What the use of expression
and then same what will come and expression is used for performing assignment
validations and calculation operations. That's all. Okay. Right. Same points repeated again and again. A combination
of a combination of a combination of operators and operants.
A combination of operators and operants is called an expression.
Is called an expression.
Uh I always have smile face. What about you?
Smile face always gives positive energy,
positive vibes. Tomorrow I'm coming to class with a serious
Will you get positive energy? You'll get interest to listen the class. So when you are talking to others, when you sit
in the class, when you are listening, have a smile face. Swami,
okay? So like you know you lose your lover, okay? Lose your money. So like that you are sitting in the class with a
sad face, no energy face, right? Wherever you are going with a smile face. You understand? You know if you
don't understand eyebrow should come nearer yes or no and a question mark face not
understand what is this ah understand yeah okay then you got a doubt okay
doubt what is happening here so some expression changes should be there on your face and then always same
expression that dog got angry on someone it is shouting it is not angry that got
attention somebody is come unknown person come that's why it is shouting So expression should be there. Okay. Right
on. Completed expression. A combination of operators and operants
is called an expression. Full stop. Condition. An expression is used for
An expression is used for An expression is used for performing.
Performing one operation. one operation. Performing
one operation either
either uh what assignments or validation or
calculation. Validation or calculation.
Assignment or validation or calculation. Uh for example, just write one sentence.
For example, for example, a =0
comma a greater than 0 comma a + 20 are expressions
are expressions. Uh final conclusion tell me what is an
operator? A symbol or a word? Why operator?
to perform validations, calculations and assignments. And next, what is an oper?
A value or a variable? A value or a variable. Can I call every time value or
a variable as operent? No. Why operent? For running operator for giving inputs
to an operator to perform validations, calculations and assignment. Next, what
is an expression? Combination of operator and operand.
Okay, then why an expression? To perform one operation, validation,
calculation, assignment. And if you want to perform one validation, calculation and assignment, you should prepare an
expression with a required number of operants and operators at the final
conclusion. Okay, got my point right. Then now tell me to perform validation
to perform assignment of of assignment validations and calculation how many
operators we have total in Java we have 40 operators right
list of operators list of operators available in Java list of operators
available in Java List of operators available in Java.
Java supports Java supports
40 operators. Java supports 40 operators. Full stop.
Among them
39 39 among them 39 are available from
Java 1.0 zero.
Come on. The new operator new.
The newly added operator. The newly added operator
in Java 8 is
lambda operator arrow lambda operator arrow
arrow and symbol arrow symbol don't write r o w
symbol you have to write lambda operator arrow point is clear tell me these 40
operators to execute I need to pass operance now uh write on down
uh we'll do one thing actually actually I thought of giving list of operators but
Okay. Don't write based on uh you can write types heading
types of operators. Types of operators. Types of operators.
Uh based on functionality.
Based on functionality, the operators are grouped into three.
Based on functionality, the operators are grouped into three sections.
Three sections.
Number one, assignment. Only one operator is there.
equal single equalum
theory. Okay, please bear with the theory. Okay, these all words daily I will use in the class. Assignment
operator. Next, validation operators.
Validation operators.
Hey, what is this? This is not angular bracket r
less than greater than less than or equals to greater than or equals to double equal to not equal to double and
double r etc. We have multiple operator just I'm giving just small list
daily using operators list I'm giving but we have background so many
next calculation operators
calculation operators
Next written a plus or minus. Okay. Based on the operator
functionality we have divided operators three types. Assignment, validation, calculation. If inter ask a question how
many types of operator Java supports then there are two categories of operators you have to tell both based on
the functionality three groups of operators assignment validation calibration based on the operants
based on the operants some operators will take one operent some operators
will take two operants some operators will take three operants based on the operants again we have three types of
operators Unary operator, huh? Binary operator and turnary operator. Unary
operator. Binary operator and turnary operator. Right on. Write down. Based on
based on based on
operants based on the operants
accept by operator based on
operants accepted by an operator based on operance accepted by an
operator, comma.
Operators are divided into three types. Operators are divided into three types.
Number one, unary operators. How many are there now? 11.
Binary operators 27
turnary operators two actually turnary operator
one operator turnary means one but it has two symbols. What is operator?
Operator is a symbol. Under turnary operator we have two symbols. Question mark and colon. Okay. So totally how
many came? 40 came. Right. So totally 40 operators are there. Now I want to see the list of
operators and their category group. Write on down list of 40 operators.
List of 40 operators.
and their group. And their group based on mathematical
functionality. based on mathematical functionality.
Based on mathematical functionality. Uh listen, the first group is don't
write. Listen. First group is
assignment. First group is assignment operator. How
many are there? No, only one. Only one that is equal to
Okay. Assignment operator only one that is equal to second operator.
Arithmetic operator. What is the second operator?
Arithmetic operators. How many are there? Five.
for the five plus minus multiplication division remainder modulo
modulo remainder. Okay. So this is arithmetic operators. Fine. Third
increment and
decrement operators. Increment and decrement operators.
How many are there? Two. What are they? ++
- Okay. Now plus, plus min - two operators are comes under increment and decrement.
All students are you writing? Don't write. Reply with me.
Next. Fourth operators. Tell me. Assignment operator has stored value. Uh
next arithmetic operator perform the calculation generate the result. Increment decrement operators also
perform calculation generate the result. Assignment operator input arithmetic and
incrementing operators are output. Everyone following right? So first one
is what? Assignment operator input. Arithmetic operator and incrementing decrementing operators are generate
output. Now I want have a question either input or output may be wrong. Now
I want to check either input is right or wrong. Output is right or wrong. For that calculation operator uh sorry
validation operators are started. These two operators are what operators? Calculation operators. Now the
validation operators are started. What are they? Relational operators.
Relational operators. What the meaning of relational? Relation checking. Checking the relation.
How many are there? You count them. They are less than, greater than, less than
or equals to, greater than or equals to. Instance of
what the word instance of. Instance of uh how many are there? 1 2 3 4 5.
Uh my count changing from other faculties count. Other faculties are adding double equal to not equal to also
under relational operator but I want to call them as separately equality
operators.
Equality operators how many are there? Two. What are they? Double equal to and
not equal. No space in between operators. When two operators together when I write no space double plus plus
no space minus minus no space less than or equals to no space greater than or equals to no space okay and double equal
to not equal to no space then next sixth operator logical operators
logical operators they are three what are they double and double are not
double and double Not all these are called what? Logical operators. Uh what
the meaning of logical operator I'll tell you. So these operators are purely validation operators. Okay. These are
meant for validation. Checking the given input output right or wrong. Then next we have some extra operators. They are
bitwise operators. Bitwise operators. Bitwise operators we
have counter number one single and single R cap till single and single R
cap and t till that is called t till how many are there total four okay bitwise operators are four next eighth one very
important this bitwise operators can be a validation operator also can be
calculation operator are catch my point first Three operators are purely
calculation. Storing is also kind of calculation. Okay. And next arithmetic
and incrementing. Okay. Let me let me take it. This is what assignment operator
and this is what calculation. Okay. Calculation and this is validation. Now bitwise operator will
act as both validation and calculation both. And eighth operator shift
operator. Shifter. Shifter. Not a shifter. Car driving car. No.
Shifter. Okay. People some people are calling it
as a short circuit operator also. Okay. Uh shift operators. There are three.
Left shift, right shift,
double right shift. What we call double right shift. No spacer.
between no space. Okay. Double left less than double right greater than and
triple greater than. So left shift, right shift, double right shift. So what
the use of it? We are coming. First I'm listing the operators. Slowly one by one I will explain you. Okay. Tell me these
operators are what operators? Purely these are calculation operators. Okay.
Now arithmetic operators and these are also calculation operator. I don't want to use operator into then use left
shift. I don't want to use division use right shift and in place of multiplication division I can use left
shift and right shift how to use I will explain you that. Okay. Then next operators, ninth operator.
Uh, okay. Compound. Compound assignment operator.
Compound assignment operators. How many are there? 11. Compound assignment
operator. And they are assignment will do. But what they will do? Observe. Compound assignment operator. Assignment
means what? Equal to compound means other operator. Plus equal to minus
equal to into equal to division equal to
modulo equal to tell me plus into minus all these are
what calculation operators. Oh calculate result generate store. Then what are the
other calculation operators? Arithmetic operators complete increment in decrement is nothing but plus+ we don't
write. Uh next here any other calculation? Oh yeah yeah yeah calculation what is that single and
equal to single or equal to cap equal to you don't use t operator only cap equal
to no t why no t because that is even only one operator it will take okay uh
next next calculation what shift operators what the shift operators right shift left shift equal to right shift
equal to double right shift equal totally 11 came count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 understand my point right? Uh then next 10th these are what operators buddy
validation calculation? Uh these are assignment and calculation. So no no
calculation and assignment calculation and assignment operator both together is
doing. Suppose if you want to write int a variable is there with value 10. I
want to write a = a + 20. a = a + 20.
Now what you write a = a + 20. Observe here how many operators you are using here? Two operators. You are generate
the result storing in a same variable. Then don't write this lengthy statement. Write a plus equals to 20. First you are
doing calculation and then you are doing assignment. So for that purpose we are using compound assignment operators.
Okay in the program I'll explain that. Uh next point 10th one is
10th one is unary operators.
Unary operators. Hello unary operator. Observe here plus+ is a unary minus
minus is a unary and next not is a unary. This negation till is a
unary already you have mentioned how many unary 1 2 3 four four already
completed then what remaining new is the one operator remaining so we will do one
thing I won't take unary operator all operators are coming there let me write
here object object creation operator
object creation operator uh what is object creation operator ator
one that is new. Okay. Next, this is also comes under what? Calculation. It
is doing calculation. How much memory is required? So, it is also comes under calculation. Then 11th operator turnary
operator. Okay. Turnary operator. The turnary
operator is two. Two operators. What are the question mark?
Question mark and colon. Tell me turnary operator comes under which operation? Validation.
It is comes under validation operator. Validation it will do if condition validation. And last but not least 12th
lambda
lambda operator lambda operator. Uh how many are there? One. What is that?
So totally 40 came pound 5 1 6 7 8 + 5 13 15 18 uh party
came. Okay. Now why calculation? So tell me I
remember all operators. I remember all operators. Which operator comes under
which category? What operation performing? Then I have my job successfully. I'm getting students in my
batch successfully. Giving success to my students successfully. Now who is turn now? Your turn. When I remember, can you
remember? Uh if you say no, then you are not a human. I'm a human. I have brain.
I instructed my brain. You can remember. You can remember. You can remember. So
it remember. Uh you are telling to your brain, I cannot remember. I cannot remember above very this much how can I
remember if you say your brain is your servant it will tell okay boss I don't
remember don't worry okay what instructions you give to your brain it will do that that is called positive
affirmation if you create positive affirmation then always you will get what positive thoughts positive will
come to you never think negative I cannot never say I cannot I will how
find the path I found the path What? First always assignment after assignment
calculation after calculation validation combination other validation calculation
combination operators. What is that? Assignment operator next arithmetic operator next incrementing decrementing
relational equality logical bitwise shift compound assignment object
creation turnary lambda expression lambda operator. So simple. Now come again. What is the last operator? Lambda
operator super. Uh, next turnary operator wall. Nice. And next
object creation operator. Uh, next compound assignment operator. Nice. And
next shift operator. And next bitwise operator wall. Next
logical operator. Uh, equality operator. Relational operator. Next incrementing
decrementing operators. Arithmetic operators assignment
operator. Wow, nice. Completed. Brain clean. Bold clean. Our brain is also
clean. Uh-huh. Now everyone look look at the board and tell me what the first operator.
How many are there? One. What is that? Single equal to.
Single equal to. And next arithmetic operators. How many are there? Five. What are they?
Uh again plus minus into division modulo
uh next operator increment decrementing operator how many
are there? Two what are they? Plus plus minus minus. Next
relational operators how many are there? Five. What the five? Less than, greater
than, less than or equals to, greater than or equals to instance of instance
of
please tell. Now what is the next operator?
Sir, you dictate not sir. Tomorrow I will tell you
instantly if you ask how can I tell her mind you have you dictate the notes we
will write the notes tomorrow I'll show my talent enter your room
company instantly you have to learn instantly you have to develop the code instantly you have to get the success
today you complete tomorrow I'll show my talent tomorrow may come may not come who knows
By the time you go out of this room down, interviewer may be waiting. If you tell the list of operators to the interviewer, you will get the job. After
going to home, maybe you will be busy with your personal works. When you can study, no chance. That's why what we
learned from the beginning, learn in the class, remember in the class, practice
in the class, go to room and sleep. Don't waste your time. Come again. Come
again. First operator assignment. Second operator arithmetic. Third operator
increment decrement. Fourth operator relational operator. Uh next
equality operators. How many are there? Two. Double equal to not equal to. Next
operator logical operator. Tell me using
relational operators and using equality operators. We are writing conditions. Multiple conditions also we can write.
Now I want to join them. For joining purpose we use logical operators. How many logical operators? Three. Double
double r not double and double r not. Uh next operator. Bit bitwise operator. How
many? Four. Single and single r. cap.
T. Okay. Uh. Next operator. Next operator. Shift operators. What the
shift operators? Right shift. Left shift. Double right shift. Uh next
operators try try compound assignment operator. How many are there? 11
plus= minus = intoal divisional modulo
equal to next operator double single and equal to single equal to cap equal to.
Next left shift operator equal to right shift operator equal to double right shift operator equal to uh the next
object creation operator new. Next
turnary operator question mark colon. Actually turnary operator is also called
conditional operator. What operator? Conditional operator. Conditional operator or turnary operator. And last
one lambda operator. Clear? All right. Again I will write
leave this right side left side gap so that you can write validation calculation also. Okay. Uh here operator
category
or group. First column operator category or group.
Uh here also you can write first column operation operation operator category or group
then number of operators.
Number of operators then
operators. Number of operators then operators.
H ah faster
assignment operator don't copy from the board that is bad habit
you should question yourself and try to recolct if unable equal to recollect then only look at the book assignment
operator uh number of operations operators one
equal to single equal to
what operation performs
assignment
right column right row. Second operator
right arrow mark to decide assignment operator perform assignment
operation. Uh next one arithmetic
operator operators arithmetic operators. How many are there? Five.
plus minus
into division modulo.
Uh it performs what operation? Calculation.
All students writing or copying.
Third one. Third one is what? Increment and decrement.
Increment and decrement operators how many are there? into plus plus no space then space minus
minus uh these operators also meant for what
calculation
okay I don't want write this line after going to home
prepare this table again on one good white paper
these notes for rougher Main points you have to prepare one separate table I mean separate white
paper last time I told you one chart to fix what is that types of data types uh
types of data first a4 size paper and this is the second paper so don't write between line because both are meant for
calculation the next fourth operator relational operator Relational
operators. How many? Five. What are they?
Less than, greater than, less than or equals to no space. Greater than or
equals to no space. Instance of no space. All letters are smaller. O not
capital letter instance of O small letter not capital letter
don't write any uh what do you call uh uh row line fifth one without writing
write on fifth one equality operators
equality operators two double equal to not equal
without any row line. Sixth operator logical operators.
How many are there? Logical operators three double and
double are not. Uh now write a row line. These three are one group operators.
All three are performing validations.
All three are performing validations.
Uh what next?
Next next. Uh logical operator continuation.
Logical operator double end single end. Single end is called what? Bitwise.
Bitwise operators. How many are there?
Four. And uh listen this singular R is called
exclusive. Uh inclusive R. Exclusive R. There are two words are there. This is inclusive R. This cap is called what?
Exclusive R. Exclusive R and this is called
complement operator. bitwise complement operator and
inclusive or exclusive or bitwise complement according to symbol we call
it as a tilder but we call it as operator wise we call bitwise complement bitwise complement operator okay I'll
give detailed notes don't worry
uh then now tell me bitwise operator one row
Uh so it is used for both
first it will do validations and also used for calculation val and cal.
Okay. If you write already line let it be there. If you write okay if uh when
you're writing white paper don't uh eighth one you know shift operator is
also working on bits directly both are working bitwise operators and shift operators both are working on memory
bits that's why I'm taking both are as one group shift operators how many are there three left shift
right shift double right shift both are working on bits their calculation will
be with bits that's why one group it is perform only calculations
assignment operator arithmetic operator increment decrementing operators relational operators equality operators
uh logical operators bitwise operators shift operators and next one is compound
assignment operator status
uh compound assignment operators. How many are there? 11. How to remember 11? First you know what is the functionality
of this? First calculate and then what? Assignment.
Calculate and assignment. So if you remember this
you can remember what operators will come calculation operators out of that 1
2 3 uh same thing we are writing four uh here what you write plus = minus = into
= division equal to modulo equal to next
first calculation completed second calculation Bitwise operators singular equal to singular R equal to exclusive R
equal to negation will not be used. Bitwise complement operator cannot be used because this is a unary operator.
Only binary operators can come under compound assignment because calculation. The next less uh left shift equal to
right shift equal to double right shift equal to. These are the 11 compound
assignment operators.
Any doubts writing a uh next next operator 10th operator.
Object creation operator.
Object creation operator. How many are there? One. What is that one? New. Is it
a keyword? New is a keyword. It is a word. Okay. Uh
what this what this performing operation is calculation sir. How it is doing
calculation sir? Generating object. How much memory required for creating object? It will do that operation.
That's why calculation operator. Next 11th operator. Conditional operator.
It is also called or turnary operator.
Some people call it as conditional, some people call it as turnary. Now how many
operators are there? Two. Actually one operator but symbols are two. Question
mark space colon space is there between question mark colon. It is a performing
conditional. Conditional means what? Validation.
validation operator. Uh last but not least, who is that fellow?
Very important, powerful operator for Java 8 version.
Lambda operator one
one simp one uh arrow hyphen
angular bracket no space between
uh totally how many operators came Starting
lambda expression
uh it is performing what operation? Validation, calculation of
method implementation.
What it will do? Method implementation or don't say method function.
Function implementation. Function means
combination of all three. Assignment. It has assignment. It has a validation. It
has calculation. All three will do. It is a function implementation operator.
Lambda operator is meant for one function to implement. Function implementation operator that consists of
all three assignment, validation, calculation. In bracket you
can write a + b + c. All three will be there. ABC assignment also will be
there. Validation also will be there. Calculation is also will be there.
So can I expect everyone understood? Will you forget by tomorrow you are
coming everything forget and fresh brain will you come uh you have to buy heart it complete
this table you should by heart if you don't by heart you will forget all points
if you don't remember operators is it easy for you to do the calculations or validations no so take time no problem
you have 48 hours of the time 48 hours of the time you have to study. Please
find at least half an hour by hearted. Write down five times imposition. Take
your rough notes. Write five times and finally take one complete white paper. Neat white paper. This diagram write
again and then stick in your room. This diagram not only for your friend for you, for your friends also. Your friends
also should know about it. Okay. Now, thank you. That's all for today class. Happy weekend once again. Thank you so
much for attending today class. online students.
Any doubts.
See you all on Monday. Thank you.
lambda operator meant for function implementation inside function all three will be there.
Okay.
When you call this next line method, this next line is
making this object. Then when you call next line method, second program execution is pass and reading of space.
Then next method reading complete HK making.
Okay. So when you call next methods normal next methods when you call it
read only data doesn't read key characters in the scanner object when you call next
time then those key characters are removed and pass the program for
for next method will not pass because next method meant for reading what data not line next for reading line is there
so next method meant for reading data data is not there data is not

