ript


Right. Good morning everyone. So last class we are trying to
understand Java operators. As part of Java operators we have completed what is operator, why operator and uh list of
operators available in Java and their divisions, groups, right? uh also we
completed assignment operator. So tell me how many types of operator Java
supports.
How many types of operator Java support?
How many types? Three types. What the three types?
assignment operator, arithmetic operators.
Hey, that is the 12. Now enter ask the question how many
types of operator Java supports?
Three types. What are the three
binary operator, unary operators, binary operators,
turnary operators. Okay, this is a big confusion question. There are three divisions are there. First one is
assignment operator, validation operator and calculation operators. Second division is unary, binary, turn. Third
one is assignment operator, arithmetic operators, increment incrementing operators, relational operators, logical
operators. Which group I have to tell to interview
ask a question? How many types of operators there in Java? First, what you have to do? Smile. H. Okay. Smile it and
tell. How do I know which group you know? How do I know? Java has different
types of groups of operators are there. Which group I have to tell? Let's say first smile. Yeah, little confusion
topic but let me try my lb best based on the functionality three types of
operators. Validation of assignment operator, validation operator and calculation operator and assignment and
initialization operator or storing operator. Assignment means storing. Storing operator, validation operator,
calculation operator based on the number of operants it is taking. Three types of operators. Unary operator, binary
operator, turnary operator. Based on the operator's group functionality, based on
the operators group functionality, we have 12 groups of operators are there.
This is what the answer you must tell to the interviewer. Say such a tricky question. Be careful. Okay.
Okay. Now then we started first group of operators understanding what is that? Huh? If enter ask a question, how many
operators there in Java? What is your answer? 40 or 45?
40. You should not say 45. You should say 40. Then what is that extra extra
five five operators? Dot square bracket
double colon diamond and
what? I forgot. You should remember not. I remember cast operator. Okay. uh these
are not operators they are separators but people are calling it as a separate operators you also can call operators
but don't call uh today we have to complete remaining
all operators ready cha chaka we have to complete today yesterday assignment completed one small
twist there I want to show you one small program I mean small point let's see can you understand
What are the rules we are trying to understand last class?
Uh rules on assignment operator. First rule is left side must be variable name. Right side can be either literal or
object or variable or expression or nonvoid method call. uh both source type and destination type must be compatible
and source type range must be less than or equals to destination type range. We
completed it. Then next without having declaration can we use assignment
operator? No. Already we discussed that is the first point. That means can I write like this I4 equal to 60? No.
Compiler throw error. This I4 variable must be available. Okay. Look at here.
I'm writing something like this. Is it allowed or not?
Is it allowed? Int I8 I6= to I7= 80. I can write. But
now I'm writing like this. Is it allowed? int i9 equal to int i 10 equal to int i
111 equal to can I declare after assignment operator no after assignment operator you cannot
declare because the data should go to the flow data type is like a wall data
cannot flow it's like obstruction okay it is for creation not for copy
uh I can use variable declaration and variable assignment in single line but
only for first variable I can use a declaration. Second variable onwards you cannot use declaration only assignment
next is it allowed
okay just now I told in the middle of assignment we cannot use declaration. Okay, next is it allowed where we are
allowed to use assignment operator. I can use assignment operator. Generally people think that assignment operator
can be used only in the single statement. Uh look at here I'm writing something like this.
Where is the program? One second.
I think it's removed. Let me write
what the rules we have written last class. Let me continue that. Rule number one, assignment operator must be
assignment operator left side must be variable, right side must be value. Rule number two, compatibility. Right? Uh int
a equal to true not allowed. And rule number three.
Rule number three. Uh int a equal to 10.5. Source type must be lesser type.
If you want to assign then we have to use cast operator. Int 10.5 allowed.
Then this five remove only 10 store. The next any rule number four I told yesterday
what the rule number four
okay cast operator right uh int
uh a equal to I'm writing int of true allowed or not allowed not allowed Next
is it allowed by B equal to int of 10.5.
Hello all look and check probably check and tell me 10.5
converted to int. What value coming out by what value coming out from here? Int
type value in type value can be stored in by no. So compiler should throw error. Suppose I am taking here 500 500
taken. Okay. Now 500.5 converted to int. But what type of value coming out? Int
by no what value coming out from this expression to store int. But variable is
what type by. So can you store int by variable? No. So cast operator range
also must be lesser than the destination variable. That that is a basic rule of this one. Rule number three. Rule number
three rule you have to apply here also. Okay. Uh rule number five right?
Rule number five.
In a single
expression, we can initialize
multiple variables. We can initialize means store value.
Store value in initialize means store value in in a single expression. We can
initialize multiple variables
int i1 semicolon int i2 semicolon. You follow the numbers
as per your notes. Okay? I didn't remember what exactly. I1 = i2 = i3 =
50. Here
the rule is
the data type
is allowed to only
the first variable
in I1 equals to okay in say suppose I'm
creating I3 completed 4 equals to I1 =
to I2 = I3 = 70. it is allowed.
Uh if I write like this in I5 I6 equal
to in I7 = to uh is it allowed? Not allowed.
Where is the error? Here is the error.
You must practice all these points and remember then only you can pass interview easily
and remember batch by batch new students are coming new competition coming to you. If you are lazy and not studying
then your juniors will overtake you and they will grab your opportunity.
I started new batch evening 5:00 right yesterday and then there also we have
same number of students same 500 students are there so my class say 500
then entire India how many institutes how many students entire world how many
institutes how many students so if you are lazy for one day then many people
will overtake you and go to the next level so that's why don't be lazy daily you
have to study Until you get the job, you should not be relaxed. Daily you have to study compulsory are to practice new new
points. Okay, tell me at least one person tell me uh I mean all the people
tell me hey sorry sorry this one there is a error you should not write int here
if you want write int in every variable I have write comma or semicolon semicolon.
If you want to write int int int, you should write semicolon. Or if you want to write comma, I should not write
data type. This point I missed. Correct. Thank you. Uh please strike off that int
in only should be for first variable. Okay. Uh tell me now only people at
least one yesterday searched in the Google any entry questions on assignment operator.
No. Right.
for loop and if loop. What is for loop? Flu you tried without covering why you
are trying
on assignment you are not finding any questions only assignment operate
that means you are learning less or more less
in the class you are learning the points which are not there in the Google also now that means you are getting knowledge
more than what Google asking Google showing you will be always one step ahead than other people who are learning
Java if you follow my classes thoroughly any question asking the interview you can answer if you follow my notes
if you are leaving the notes not practicing wasting the time definitely you will face the problem in my class
itself next coming classes only you will face problems forget about Google forget about your interview you yourself will
face the problem in the next classes so that's why Be energetic.
Be what do you call more active focused on your career. So until you get the
job, you should not be relaxed. Okay? Always you tell yourself I want job. How much salary job? Have the figure what
what salary number you want? Write on a paper stick to your wall. So every day
you have to see and work. Okay. Huh? So tell me now. Am I allowed to use the
data type in the middle of the assignments? No. In a single expression I can do multiple variables assignment
by using assignment operator. Middle of the expression I cannot use the data type compil error. So this are rule
number five. Then next rule number six.
Rule number six. Now tell me what the rule number six
where I can use assignment operate. Look at here is the statement right? Enter I7
I8 equal to 50. Is it allowed? Where am
I using assignment operator? In a variable declaration statement in
the variable declaration I have used allow allowed. Now I'm writing I8 equal
to uh okay I am declaring variable in one line separately and then I'm writing
I9 equal to I9 equal to say some value 70. Is it allowed? Uh can I use
assignment as a single statement? Yes, I can use assignment as a single statement
or I can use assignment as
I can use assignment as a single statement or or I can use assignment in a variable
declaration statement. Uh is it allowed or not?
I 10 equals to I 9
equals to 70. Hello.
That means is it oper in an expression?
Is it an operend here? What is the operator? Assignment to this assignment
operator. This is an expression.
For example, if you write a + b here, what is a?
Here what is a? Operant. What is b? Operant. A plus b is what? Expression.
It is an expression. In the expression. In the expression uh A is a operant. B
is an operent. Tell me is it an expression or not? In this expression, how many operants are there? Two. This
is operator. It 10 is a one operent. Left side, it is what? Second operent.
All are catching my point. Uh can I use a assignment operator as an operand in
an expression? Yes. Is it valid? Yes. Then what happened? 70 copied into I9. I
9 copied into I 10. Clear? Yes sir. Next. I'm writing one more statement. Let's see how many people confused. Int
i 111 = to I 10 =
80 plus I1 sorry I 9 I 9 = 20 semicolon.
Is it compiled or not compiled?
Is it compiled or not compiled? Not compiled.
It is not compile. It is a compiler throw error. What should I do here? How
many operators you have used? Two operators. Assignment and plus.
Which operator has highest precedence? Whenever I use two operators in an
expression, priority will be applied. Precedence will be applied. Assignment
operator meant for doing calculation or storing when it can store after result
is generated. Who is generating result? Plus, so plus operator high priority. Assignment operator has high priority.
Plus operator has high priority. So first plus operator is trying to execute. Then what is executed? Now this
is executed 80 + i9. Now what is the i9 value? 70 70
80 + 70 150. Now 20 is trying to store in
possible or not possible compiler throw error. Understand? Write down. Rule number six.
Assignment operator has assignment operator has
last priority or least priority of them. Uh least priority
not priority priority or precedence.
President spelling what? Oh, you know spelling huh? Wow. Super.
Write on your spelling. I'll copy from Google.
Google Mahali is there. Huh? Means
it always executes
at last after all operators are executed in this
expression.
A in I8 equal to write down simple expression first
80 + 70 80 + 7 anything
uh first what is executed here how many oper operators are there two assignment operator
and plus operator. First what is executed? Plus operator then result is
stored.
Write down arrow mark and number as it is.
Uh tell me int i 9 equals to
60 + 60 + i8
i8 = 20
uh can I use assignment operator anywhere in the statement? Yes. Combination with what plus I have used.
Now what is executed? Is it a right syntax? No. Right syntax because I use
assignment operator or president's problem. President's problem. uh tell me
what the flow first what is executed plus this is first executed then 20
trying to store in this result now we'll get compile time error
right write on this statement and we will evaluate we will write evaluation also first you write first and then
second right arrow mark to where iata or Lesser
lesser
uh tell me the evaluation after writing this. Write writ
uh writing this tell me the evaluation. First step what happened? Comment this and write down I8 place what is placed?
87. Uh next 87 + 60
120 1 47 uh equal to 20. Now 20 is trying to
store in 147 not possible. So we are getting compile time error. What are the
compile time error? Compile time error.
Hey, will you type all these things also in your system? Hey,
are a brainless fellow will you write these commented statements in your system?
No, only this line you have to write. Oh,
only this line you write. Compiler software evaluate like this background. Okay, understood. What the compile time
we will get here? Unexpected time
what is required? Variable variable is required. Unexpected type
variable is required. Oh variable there sir variable you are using individual or with expression
with expression. When I use with expression what is generated? Value is generated.
Let me show you this.
You have to know how to evaluate. It's mathematics. Operator is nothing but mathematics.
Just a test programs not more than control one. Uh look at there. What is the compiler?
class by number 218
somewhere in the middle comment is there. Give me one second.
Look at the error is what unexpected type required variable found what value
where it is showing now plus. So if I use assignment operator and plus operator first priority giving to whom
now plus operator plus operator is evaluated result is generated. Now this
value trying to store in another literal not possible. So we got compile time error. Can you help me to solve this
compile time error? Here we are getting compile time error because of return wrong or because of
order is wrong. Uh tell me which one you want to execute first. Plus assignment
already plus executing first. Now you don't want that is by default happening but now you want execute assignment
first then mass it's not Java mass bracket you
place assignment operator in the bracket now which bracket square bracket or round bracket round bracket now now the
priority got changed if you want to give highest priority to assignment operator place inside the bracket tell me now is
it compiled no not compiled compile successfully compile successfully Now uh now I place in the bracket evaluate. Now
uh evaluate like compiler think now first what I have to do replace variable with value. What the value 87
sorry sir it will be there I8 as it is i8 equal to 20. 20 stored in i8. What is
the value of i8 now? 20 87 replaced with 20. And then now here what happened? 20
is substituted. Are you following my point? 20 stored in I A and 20 is substituted. Clear? Uh
then next point is what? Now 20 + 60 what is the value? 80. Uh now in I9 80
is stored. Uh now let me display system.out print of
System.out.print Print Lov I 8 and I 9.
Control F11. 20 and 80. Close this.
Compile. Execute. 280. Everyone understand? So this is the
very important calculation you should know. I can use assignment operator in combination with other operators. Then
assignment operator will having always less priority in expression. Then if you
want to give first priority what should I do now? I should place in the bracket right for executing
assignment operator.
First we must place it
in an in round bracket parenthesis.
No error.
Uh try that evaluation. This is
int I9 equals to 60 + uh what will be
coming here? 20. Here
value 20 is stored in I8.
20 is substituted.
Then 60 + 20 result is 8. system.out
print I8 and I in
whatch any confusion
if you have confusion ask me don't say
online students. Everyone understand
Okay. Now let us try to see
writing. Again I'm asking question will you type
these evaluation in your system? You will type only this statement.
Compiler JVM follows this style. you should also know it then only you can
pass. Uh now let's see
uh these are the points we have to learn on every chapter. I'm sorry on every operator we have to
learn these are the points. Let's see all points covered or not. First point how many operators are part of assignment operator only one. What is
the single equal to? Next what is the use of that single equal to operator?
storing value or object reference in a variable. What type of operator it is?
Binary operator. What operants are allowed? Operates means what type of operance means? Left side, right side
allowed. Is literal allowed? Yes. Which is side? Right side. Left side not allowed. Left
side only variable. Left. Right side lit or variable. Variable declaration or
variable accessing. Variable accessing. Declaration. Left side sorry right side variable declaration not allowed only
accessing expression method call all are allowed. Uh next type of operants
allowed tell me assignment operator can I use on byte type variable? Yes all
types of variables. How many data type variables we have in Java? 7 8 + 9 10
variables are there. What is that? Byte plus by short int long float double care
boolean eight primitive data types string variable n array variable 10
class variable class means what our class example student employee class okay so can I use assignment operator on
all these types of variables yes uh then next operator result type tell me what
type of result this operator will give assignment operator is giving you any value to your hand oh yes sir just now
You seen assignment operator what it is doing? What the functionality of assignment
operator? Store 20 in I8 variable return the same
value. Now what is substituted here? 20. What type of value?
int. Why in? Because 20 is in because i8 is in. Okay. Let me prove that point.
Let me prove uh variable is returning value. Suppose I'm writing here double
D1 D1 semicolon can I write like this system dot outprint ln system output
okay not allowed good good wonderful tell me can I write like this 10
s and 10 print method for printing the given value can I can I print 10
10 is a value compiler knows of what type in any compile time error no what
is printed 10 printed okay now now I'm writing here 10 + 20
come on how much time you will take her 10 + 20 how much that is a value
that is a l expression expression if I expression to print method. Does it mean print expression or
print expression result? Print expression result. So 10 + 20
evaluated result what is placed 30. Who returns that 30?
Everyone who prints 30 print. Who returns that 30? Who substitute 30
there?
Not J fellow. What you have written here plus you are
telling to the plus my dear operator plus take the value 10 and 20 add return
result operator meant for performing an operation and generate result now who
generating results operator uh if I use plus operator here we generating result
plus only 10 + 20 added result is 10 + 20 replace with 30 who will return 30
plus operator last error
10 + 20
plus operator.
Look at here like plus operator in place of 10 I'm writing D1 in place
of plus I'm writing equal to in place of 2020 uh any error no error no error operator
will return value you people don't know assignment operator returning value you are not accepting It assignment operator
also will return value. First what it is doing? Store value in D1 and then
return that value. Store and return. Store and return. It will return the
value as what type? Uh variable type. Destination variable
type. Here 20 is what type. Excellent. Store it in which variable?
Double. Then what value will come out? Double type. And what is printed? 20 20.5
uh 20.0 so far 20.0 let me see in the
next line if I print D uh tell me D1 variable value also what you'll get 20.0
Z control one compile control.
So tell me is assignment operator meant for only storing a return also.
Every operator must return value then it is not called operator. Every operator
must perform operation and should return what result. Assignment operator performing what operation? Store return.
Plus operator add return. Minus operator subtract
return. Uh into operator multiply return. Uh uh less than operator.
Excellent. Compare return. Greater than operator compare return. Double equal to
operator compare return. Uh double end.
Double end join return. Join join. Double r is metaphor. joining
concatenation operation. So every operator is meant for performing operation and return result. So
assignment operator return what type of value depending on the variable type. If I write here int what type of value will
come in type control one compile control 2.
Okay. Huh? Uh if I write here uh say care
care 20 character will be stored at
20 character 20 in the range of car data type that's why I told you range is very important 0 to 65,535
20 in the range of caret yes that can be stored in car variable yes 20 store 20
as key character stored what is the 20 as character I don't No, you don't know
that is 20 ask character what is coming not space uh space empty line I know
whatever s for your understand let me take 97 uh 97 what is stored
wow super so tell me what is the assignment operator doing storing and returning
what the operator result type assignment operator result type listen there is only two results will be there number
one number result. Okay. Totally three results are there. Number one, number result, boolean result and string
result. Totally how many result? Three results. Object and string. Object is nothing but string. So totally three
results will be there. A operator will return three results. Number one number. Number two boolean. Number three string.
String or object. String is also object. Common point have written object. Let me change it to string. Huh? Now tell me
no. Plus operator return what type of value? Plus is meant for about adding
numbers. Can you add booleans? No. True plus true how much? True. True. No.
Right. So compiler throw error. So add arithmetic operators plus or minus
result is what? Number. Next. Less than greater than relational operators resulted is what? Boolean. It return
true false. Now that means what? Boolean. Uh now if I use assignment
operator assignment operator result type is what? Depending on variable type. If
a variable is a number type returns what? Number. If result is a car type
results what? Car. If variable type is a boolean returns what? Boolean. If
variable type is a reference variable. Example E1 equal to referenced variable.
Example E1 equal to example E1 semicolon uh now tell me I'm writing system dot
outprint ln E1 equals to new example
tell me what happened object is stored in E1 the same object is return so what
is coming on the console class name at the rate hash code
understand my point so assignment operator result type is depending on the
type of the variable. Okay. Uh next one where we are allowed to place it
expression I1 + I1 equal to 10. Where I can write? I can write as a single
statement. I can write as a operand to the expression also. I can write as a
argument to the method. Print len of I1 equal to 10. Just now you have seen right. I can write in three ways. as a
single statement or as a expression argument I mean expression operate or as
a method argument also we can write next operators precedence and associivity
tell me assignment operator is executed which direction left to right or right to left
right to left the right side part first executed and result is stored in the
left side assignment operator direction is right to left next what is the
precedence precedence Means priority is it having high priority or last priority? It has a least priority. After
all operators executed then it is it is executed. Just now we completed. Now operator usage in combination with other
operators. If I use the assignment operator in combination with other operator always other operators are
first executed. If you want to execute assignment operator first I have to place inside brack and based on this 10
points theory point sample programs entry questions and OCA OCA bits OC and Oracle certified associate Oracle
corporation conducting one exam with the name what OCA whatever the questions you have understand those are all part of
what interview and OCA questions can I expect everyone understand uh right next point what the result type of
what is the result type What is the result type of
assignment operator? What is the result type of assignment
operator? What is the result type of assignment
operator? Now what the result type?
The variable the destination variable type. The destination variable type.
The destination variable. What happened today? My sound is low.
the destination variable type. Uh, write down
int i1 = i1 semicolon.
Enter I1 semicolon. I1 = I1
double D1 semicolon
here C1 semicolon
example E1 semicore
Uh again I'm asking question is assignment operator just a storing or storing and returning or
uh that's very important
here output is 97 again 97 Here
output is 97.0 97.0
program A and A. You can play with your friends in hostel also.
Show this point to your friends in hostel so that they will also enjoy and they will tell the new points whatever
they have learned to you. Always remember knowledge grows when you share
your point. Do you tell your friends tell their points so that both together can grow
and next when your friends unable to give answer don't insult them hey you don't know this point also they will try
to find one more point which you don't know they will insult you back so always help your friends never insult anyone
nobody knows anything everyone we are here for learning and moving to Next
completed. Can you write memory diagram here? Flow execution. Uh so tell me here
how many operations totally two. First here I variable memory created. One
thing I will tell remaining you have to follow. Uh now first I1 memory created
next 97 stored in I1.
Listen incrementing decrementing operators will torture you if you don't catch this point. After story again what
is happening? I1 value reading
and giving to print element. What is coming here? 97.
Observe if you don't understand this flow incrementing decrementing operators will
torture you. I1 equal to 97. First what happened? 97
is stored. 97 is going unstored. After that what is
available variable. So there are two points are there. First assignment
sec first operation. Second operation is what? Reading I1. Reading I1. Now again it is going to I1
variable. What value available here? 97. Reading that 97.
97 and giving 97 to print. So totally three operations one assignment second
I1 third story prints
assignment operator one operator thoroughly sir remaining operators check you'll understand
try
daytime stars. You will see blood tears will come.
Uh try for next one. Why you are waiting? Uh first double D1 D1 variable
created uh here how many steps are there? three first
97 stored then next D1 reading then passing to print ln uh 97 stored in D1
after storing what it become 97 0 reading that 97 and substituted
storing and reading 97.0
97 is going 97.0 and zero is coming and giving to print
arrow arrow and what is the meaning of arrow mark read don't study don't try arrow
mark 97 storing in d1 97.0 zero reading and
substituting giving 97 to print ln
speak out come on try next one care how many steps are here three first 97
stored in ch and reading ch and substituted giving ch
to print element three steps C1 variable created
in C1 variable 97 stored 97 stored as
single quote A 97 passed. Then from there reading and substituted C1
variable coming out as single quote A and giving single quote A2.
for
already.
Huh?
Next example.
Third one. Third one. Fourth one. Try. Example even.
example even
don't feel lazy buddy please this is one again again I'm telling this one program if you understand remaining all programs
are easy uh come on how how to do now example even first step
even variable created second step new example
third step storing Right. Fourth step reading.
Fifth step passing. Totally five steps are first step variable created. Okay.
This is one create object uh object create with reference what 10
x variable y variable. What are the values in x and y variable? yesterday written 5 6 uh 5 6. Now here 10 10
written take the reference 10 10
uh now passing the 10 to store it in E1. This is second step
tendance stored. Third step is what? Taking the same reference substituted
here and giving the tent to fourth step.
Print len print and printing on console.
Hello students, everyone doing a feeling lazier?
When value stored C1 is 97, how the answer printing is a sir?
You are storing 97 inside a car variable number. How character can store 97?
97 is converted to character type A.
Uh done completed. So now this E1 is pointing to this
object. Second step tendance store pointing to E1.
Are you confident on assignment operator? So when you see assignment operator related any question you should
able to answer these are the 10 points are there around assignment operator okay uh I will I have written all this
code jigj way that's why not uploaded I will correct it today today I have some free time I'll correct it and all the
points properly I'll order and I'll upload okay now uh now let's go to the next operator so can I expect everyone
confident on this okay now let's go to the next topic ticketing assignment
operator S arithmetic operator.
Arithmetic operators.
I'll ask one question. Can I use all types of values as operants to the
assignment operator? Yes. All primitive data types. string, array, class, any
type of values you can use because assignment operator meant for storing. Can I use arithmetic operators on all
data types? No. Relational operators on all data types? No. The facility is
available only for assignment operator other operators you cannot. If you try to use compiler throw error. So first
point right now uh how many operators are there as part of assignment? Five.
Right. Under assignment sorry under arithmetic
under arithmetic operators we have five operators. Under arithmetic operators we have five
operators. They are
we have five operators. They are uh symbols write down plus comma minus
comma star comma slash which is slash
wait why you writing single code they are not characters no symbols
symbol symbol which is slash
why written double slash Search
single slash no single forward slash division operator and next
mod and percent symbol.
Uh these are the symbols plus minus into division modul. Second point
notes point of already just notes point of what the use of those operators.
Second point, plus is used for adding.
Plus C is used for adding two numbers,
comma, characters, comma,
strings.
Plus is used for adding two numbers. Two numbers 10 + 20 two characters
single not a plus b a plus b is variables single code a plus single code
b two characters okay uh two strings double quotes a plus double quotes b two
character two strings also we can add I'm very specifically telling plus is
used for adding two numbers two characters and two strings next point uh
not next point bullet And the second point bullet point minus uh what is minus? Subtraction operator.
It is used for minus is used for subtracting
uh two numbers. Can I subtract two numbers? Yes. Two numbers. Comma. Can I
subtract two characters? Yes sir. Two characters minus a sorry
single code a minus single code b 97 - 98 minus one. Okay. Uh, two strings.
Possible or not possible? Double quotes A minus double quotes B. How can I subtract? Not possible. Double quotes A
plus double quotes B. What is the value? Double quotes AB. Both are concatenated,
joined, but subtraction cannot be used. Next.
Next. into into star
minus.
Okay. Into for multiplying
is used for multiplying uh what two numbers
and two characters 97 into 98. What about strings?
Can you multiply strings? No. Can you multiply objects? No. Okay, remember
that. Next, division.
Division is single slash mass
single forward slash is used for dividing
numbers, characters. Uh division has two results, sir.
quotient will be there remainder will be there
go to mathematics okay suppose I'm writing 10 by five in mathematics how to
write five each 10 now five 2 10
what we call it as quotient what we call it remainder. Now your division operator
returns whom portion it returns two. Understood and returns following it is
used for dividing two numbers, two characters and returns quotient. What is
the spelling of quotient? C
U O T I E N quotient. Search in Google
return quotient. Uh next percentage. Next operator what do you
call percentage operator? Percentage or modulo modulo or remainder. Okay. Uh
percentage is called percentage is called modulo or remainder operator.
This one modulo or remainder operator. modulo or remainder operator.
It is used for dividing two numbers or characters.
It is used for dividing two numbers or characters.
It is used for dividing two numbers or characters and returns
remainder as result. returns remainder as result.
Uh write on this example. For example,
okay, write on this program. For example,
Come on.
Don't write system.out printer. Write s
time.
Now tell me what is the output side? 20 + 5 25 20 - 5 20 into 5 20 by 5
4 20 modifier zero side you write
5 20 54
20 result zero this will return by
division operator. Uh it will return by
remainder operator.
20 by 5 20 modify
and the IP in the arithmetic operators anything else you want to know don't know you want you want to learn anything
else that's all right uh that is academics now highity starts write on
down Special point on plus operator.
Special point on plus operator.
Plus is a overloaded operator.
Plus is a overloaded operator.
Plus is a overloaded operator.
Please stop. Next point. It can be used as
It can be used as number one arithmetic operator.
Wait, wait, wait. Arithmetic addition operator. It can be used as arithmetic addition
operator. Number two,
concatenation operator. Number two, concatenation operator.
Concatenation operator.
concatenation operator. If both operants are
If both operants are numbers
or characters, if both operants are numbers or
characters are both or both. It can be it it it acts as
it acts as uh which operator addition operator.
It act as addition operator and generates new result
and generates new result. Write down for example
For example, S O P Ln 10 + 20
uh what the result we'll get semicolon right 30
hey side output 30 next s ln bracket single quote Okay.
Single.
Single code A plus single code B.
Huh? Right or wrong? Right. Plus operator can add only numbers. But what
you have used character then what it will do? background. Convert the character to 97. 97 + 98.
Result 195. Right. Result 195.
Uh third statement. Right.
Pod enter.
107 117% check
20 + single quote here 97 + 20 11
understood read about point again if I use both operants as
numbers or characters or both. It act as a addition operator and generates result.
Next, next point. Okay, next point. Now, next line.
If at least one operent is
one operent is string. If at least one operent is string,
comma, it act as
concatenation operator. It act as concatenation operator.
It act as concatenation operator.
Concatenation means concatenation means
uh what the meaning of concatenation appending or joining.
Appending or joining.
Appending or joining.
appending or joining and generate results.
Appending or joining and generating result. For example,
write down this
fast. Fast. Still we have some more points to discuss.
All these are compulsory. We will see in interview.
What is the result sir? Uh this middle double quotes plus double
quotes removed and joined AB. Uh here middle double quotes plus double quotes
removed. What is the output? 1020. Uh now job then here what it will do
50 uh what it will do here 70 is there now
this 70 is a stringer number it convert this 70 to string
how it can convert 70 to string put in double quotes
compiler software place 70 in the double quotes it converts that 70 to string and
concatenates. So if we use a string and other types, the other types are converted to the string and then
concatenate. Okay. So output is what? 5070 and here a 90 here 90. Any
direction you write string at least one operent is a string. Left side or right side then the result is what? String
right on the output side.
There is no string if no string can add
then everyone. Yes sir. uh uh down our side var space writer.
If I use string and other types. If I use a string and other types
values. If you use string and other type values,
comma. The other type values are
the other type values are
uh converted to string type.
converted to string type
and then concatenated and then concatenated.
Are you written side outputs? Okay. Uh,
Bengali Mahesh has asked me a question. Sir, without space it will print or with space it will print?
Bengali mahesh. You bought a veg biryani then you'll get with chicken biryani without chicken
mahesh. Without
chicken with chicken no sense
Java no common sense where is space you have added
did you place any space after or before B then how space it will included by
compiler or JVM okay let's see output all our output are
matching to our explanation
Right. AB 1020 50 70 A 90. Clear?
Yes. Now show your talent. Now let's see here. I'm going to write something like this everyone. Int a
equal to 10. Uh no I will write system out. Len of I'm writing double quotes.
What will be printed? Very space.
It is empty string. No, what is printed? Empty line. Nothing will be printed.
Empty string will be printed. Nothing will be there. Okay. Now, now I'm writing plus
what is output?
Where is space not there? Output is everyone should answer.
What is the answer? 30 30
10 + 20 30
Simple math here. 10 + 1 t.
Don't believe your eyes. Eyes are most danger. That's why you will fall in love with easily.
Okay. Eyes are the most danger.
Compile. Execute.
How? 10 20 10 + 20 30 You have not written
1020. You have written string + 10 + 20. Oh,
then your plus is there. Now uh this plus first executed. This plus first executed.
There are two pluses are there. The order is very important. Left to right. Okay. left to right and
both operators are having same same priority. So same priority operators are executed left to right but you told
right to left that is assignment assignment operator only right to left remaining all operators are left to
right with the precedence and tell me first which one executed a executed.
Tell me one of the operent is string. If one of the operent is string other operent is converted as string.
Understood? Uh next both are join. Uh tell me by the time second plus is
executing uh one of the oper number 10 as string 10 string 10 then next 20 is
converted as string and then finally both are string string joined output is
what write on this what is output from below statement.
Output is 1020 not 30.
and evaluation.
completed. Um when plus operator act as a concatenation
operator if the operand is string there onwards
left side all operators are act as a concatenation operator. Observe here I'm
writing same statement like this. Here concatenation will work or arithmetic operation will work. System dot out dot
print len of 10 plus I am moving the double quotes in
the middle plus 20. Now tell me what is the output?
Which plus first executed this plus what is the output? double quotes 10 plus
double quotes 20 result is what 1020 control 1 control 2
uh what executed 1020 now tell me now I am moving this plus double quotes to the
end now output is 10 20 30
double quote 30 uh number 30 string 30 string 30 output
is no string Hope everyone understand now. Yes sir. Right. So write down these two
statements also. Here output is here output is 1020 or double quotes 1020 are
double quotes but double quotes will not be printed. Here double quotes 10 20
double quotes. Here output is double quotes 30
like this. There are some tricky interesting points are there.
You learn HQ Java and
if you want to learn Java like this we need time minimum 6 months
but are you giving 6 months time to me? Yes. No only you will give time 1 month 1 month
20 two months completed then people will send message when course completed Okay.
Uhhuh. Okay. Next. Now I want to ask one question. Ready? Here.
Uh. Next. Next point. Look at here. Simple point. I'll ask int a equals to 10 in b equals to 20
system dot out dot same program system dot out dot
print len of a + b allow
what happened here a + b added a value b value added
first variable replace with 10. Uh 10. Uh next B replaced with its value 20.
Then both are any string is there? No. When there is no string plus is act as a
addition operator output is 30. So this 30 is a string 30 or number 30. Number
30. Clear? I don't want a plus result. Okay. First let me show you.
I don't want result. I want
I want a + b itself. I want a + b itself. And tell me what I
should write now. Uh I should write double quotes a + b. Then what you'll get? A replace with 10.
B replaced with 20. No because you placed inside double quotes. When you place inside double quote that is not
considered as variables. They're considered as just lit. Uh consider just
text A plus B as it is will come. A plus B as it is will come. A plus B as it is
will come. Okay. Now able to see the output. A plus B as it is will come. Let
me comment previous statements.
Ready. Wonderful point is coming now. A + B comes. Now I am writing I want A + B
also result A plus B both I want. Then I'm writing A + B colon plus A + B. If I
write inside double quotes as it is will print. If I write outside double quotes it is evaluated and then printed. So
tell me what is output? A + B col 30.
Come on everyone. A + B colon A + B 10
20 A + B 30 30
by 30
10 Ah
super first body is there. This statement, this statement both are
same my dear one line.
Okay. The above statement and this statement both are same. Either uh this line
let me remove this evaluation not required. Look this line this line both are same
both are same. Here empty string I have written. Here some text I have written.
Here three plus operators. Here also sorry two plus operators. Here also two plus operators. Hello. This inside
double quote this plus is not operator. It's just a symbol character as is printed. Uh now at how many pluses are
there? Two. First plus first execute. Uh by the time this plus is executing left side is what is there? String. String
plus anything is what? String. String plus anything is what? So what is the output?
uh 10 + a + b not 30 10 + 20
understand this is the tricky questions will be there all the people will be trapped what they will see only here
they will a plus b a value 10 b value 20 30 finally get wrong answer come on
evaluate how to work now here a + b a value is 10 uh b value is 20 uh Next
this 10 converted to string and next joined uh next converted to 22 string
and then join. Understand? Yes sir. So this is what you have to work
carefully. You have to evaluate. Don't use your eyes.
Okay. Now with the eyes if you do calculation gone compulsory you have to use your hand. Now look at here. If you
want a 30, what I need to do? Uh change the priority of the operator. If you
place a bracket first this plus executed and then this plus executed. Tell me the evaluation. 10 replace with a replace
with 10. B replaced with 20. Uh a + b both are numbers. So add 30 and then 30
converted to string and then concatenated printing value a plus. So
this is how the evaluation you have to practice right write down these four lines also
Okay. Tomorrow.
So I don't know Hindi. You don't know Java.
Tomorrow class is more interesting. Don't miss
tomorrow your brain will get fried like anything.
today. Okay. Okay. Some points learn, some points no, some points don't know. Tomorrow all points known points. Again
and again you will commit mistake. So tomorrow such a nice class, super class.
Don't miss tomorrow class
completely is a double quotes. Now it is now one value. There is no separation. Previously 30 only coming but this is
completely string plus 30 this is a completely string it's a one string double quotes double quotes double
quotes double quotes not number 30 string 30 completed uh now listen is this allowed or not
tell me look look uh one point right on there
if first operend is a string if first operend is a string
If a first operent is a string,
next all plus operators. Next all plus operators
will
act as a concatenation operators will act as a concatenation operators
will act as a concatenation operators. Full stop continuation
in presence of concatenation.
In presence of concatenation,
if you want to use, if you want to use
plus operator as
plus operator as what? Addition
plus operator as addition operator we must place in bracket.
We must place it in bracket as shown in above program as shown in above program.
As shown in the above program uh look at here one statement I'm
writing system.out out print
I want to subtract. I don't want to add. I want to subtract. I'm writing a minus
b colus b. Huh? What is the output? Tell me.
Listen carefully. Whenever you are evaluating an expression, you have to first verify what are the different
operators used in the expression. What the different operators used plus
or minus? Then immediately you have to question what is the precedence of these operators?
Plus and minus have the same precedence. Whichever coming first that will be
executed. Okay. Now which is coming first? Plus plus will be first executed.
Uh tell me what is the output? It is a compile time error.
Why compile time error? It is a compile time error. Why compile time error? Bad operand types for binary
operator minus a minus b. This is first executed. What the result coming there?
Result. Result type. Result type string. String minus number. Possible or not possible? not possible. I can concat
string but I cannot subtract string. What I told minus is used for
subtracting numbers and characters not strings. Uh so if you use minus operator
on string you will get compile time error. Very very important. Uh then can
I use can I use can I use like this? Yes. First minus is executing as a minus
and then completed output compiled and then executed.
What output coming? A minus b minus 10. Understand? Write on these two lines
only plus I can use with a string. Other operators cannot use
really I'm telling you tomorrow class is man class okay miss out don't miss tomorrow
class any of your friends are lazily sleeping in the home beat them and bring to the
As a friend, you should not leave your friends be lazy and missing the class.
Okay? You should compulsory force them. If they're not studying properly, fall
in love with lovers going, call to parents and tell.
Really, I'm telling send one akashana letter. Okay. I am one of your daughter or son
hostile mate. I found your daughter son fall in love not coming to classes.
Okay, write one letter. No problem. Send one message.
I used to do that to my friends. I used to do one day there was a big fighting between me and
my friend Hindu. Why did you tell? Yeah, you are my friend. Why you worry about
my life? because you are my friend. Okay. So now he is in a good position.
Now sometimes when when I call what are you doing because of you today I'm this position otherwise Ga. Okay. So you know
really I'm telling you love is not bad but it is bad for education time.
Education and love both are enemies. Job and love is friends.
Okay. After getting job, fall in love, then you'll have two advantages. Number
one, definitely you will marry to that girl or boy only. Second, you will have two salaries.
Yes or no? So your life will be happy. Okay? And no regrets, no guilty feeling.
Happily you can continue with your life till end. That's why don't fall in love.
Sir if somebody come and propose what to do accept okay now and tell that person wait after
Java completed I will think of it if you rejected see if you rejected there is a
problem no he may or she may get you know angry on you trying for a reason to take a revenge on you why unnecessary
problem except thank you so much because there is someone loving you mama right uh so accept the love okay and then say
sorry now I'm busy with the job I love Java. Okay. After Java study completed,
job still if you are there then I'll think of it. So politely reject. So this is what my suggestion for you all people
only fall in with this program today. Assignment operator we have learned so
many tricky points those points and today plus operator concatenation minus
operator no concatenation practice and come. Tomorrow we are seeing wonderful points. Thank you. We will try tomorrow
to wind up this chapter. See you all tomorrow.

