ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
So last class we have completed incrementing and decrementing operators.
Today let us try to understand next topic.
Yeah. What is your doubt? Tell me. I'll explain.
Inter variable not understood. Which variable? In variable.
What is your doubt?
Unmute.
Hashbad. Then unmute and ask. What is the question?
What happened? I'm not Hello. Ah, hello
sir. Actually uh please explain the full program once.
What? Come again. Sir please explain the full program which which you have given yesterday and
assignment. What is your doubt? I asked why I will explain. What is your
actually I'm not uh understanding int P int num int i is
equals to num that's here this one yeah sir line number
I do not understand here what is your doubt sir integer i is equals to zero then uh
num num y num is assigned huh what is your doubt
sir actually I am not understanding this full statement you Now if you repeat
same statement what is your doubt here I'm asking if you say not understanding is it a first class
no sir and then what stupid statement you are saying not understand not understand stop using that word that irritates me
like anything okay it is not first class right
yes sir first class means not understand what is this integer uh variable data type
declaration sir uh what is the meaning of this statement integer I data means uh integer type
data type in uh integer type variable I is equals to zero
don't read what I have typed tell me in English what is this what are you doing this what this line
is doing that's what my question initiating I is equals to0 value this is initializing I equal to0 what is
this entire line integer i equals to0 Z
don't read this one what is there what this line is doing
initializing I is equals to zero now sir this is initializing what this is doing
it is storing the uh zero into I initializing storing both are same
yes or this line is doing this part selected part
integer I declaring integer Declaring means what?
Declaring means what? Declaring is Java. Yes sir. What is the meaning of in declaring?
It's making I is an I as an integer value.
Yes sir.
Hello.
Hello.
Huh? Why you muted again?
If you don't practice the basics then how can you understand next classes?
Yes sir. What? Yes sir. So practicing sir. What practicing? Typing program.
Yes sir. Uh don't type. That's what I'm saying from the day. Don't type programs. What
is the meaning of this line? What this line is doing background? You should know this is a variable creation
statement. Here variable memory created with value zero.
Yes sir. Uh what is the memory structure? I told whenever you see this line
I is equals to I is equals to uh in front of I box return and in and in this
box zero is assigned. What you not understand? Tell me. You are saying not understand. Not
understand. What you not understand? You understood. No. Yes sir. Uh next what is this?
Num sir. Uh that num is apply data type here use comma
assignment operator already told you now I can declare multiple variables in single line and I can initialize them or I can
initial in the same line but that data type should be available only before first variable declaration.
Okay. The assignment operator what number variable is created with value
with not not value only the memory only memory is created. Any doubt now in this line?
No sir. What is next doubt tell? No sir. Understand sir. What is happening here?
In number in num a equals to 5 in a equals to uh increasing by one. A is a a
value increasing by one. A value increasing by one. A eraser.
A value increasing by one. I value increasing by one. A uh I value is
equals to uh is increasing by one. I is equals to 1. Uh what is the value here?
One. Value there is one. Uh what is the value substituted here?
So in array uh 5 10 15 one is added.
What is placed here? This is a variable, right? This line should be replaced with value. What is the value?
A equals to 1. A uh a in bracket one.
Okay, Baba. In a bracket one, what is the total value substituted there?
A1 sir, huh? A1 what?
I ++ I replace with what? One. One. Okay. This total statement become
what? A of one. A ar of a huh?
Ar of a. No, ar of one. What is the value? Yes. Ar of 1 is equals to value one.
Array of one. Yeah. Index value. Index value. Uh what
value will come here? Uh 10. Uh this is replaced with 10.
10. Okay. Uh now I ++ I ++ uh is equals to 2.
Uh two plus I three. What the total value?
10 + 2 + 10 + 2 12 + 3 15. What is the I value?
15. Uh no 15 uh three sir. number uh 15.
Yes sir. Understood. Sir tell me what you not understand. No sir understood.
Yes understood. So how did you understand now? That's what my question
actually I'm confusing with that values array and uh who confused you?
No sir. No one confused sir. Actually I'm practicing and confused sir.
Who confused you? No one sir. No one if no one confused you. How did
you get confusion man? Who confused you? You only. Yes,
you look.
Okay. Oh, very tough. That's it. Hands up and sit silently.
What is this question? What is this? What is this? What is this? What is this? What is this? Ask a question. What
is this? It is a variable creation. I gave assignment means already this topic
completed in the previous topics. draw memory. If you don't draw memory, you
will get zero. I have written memory now in front of you. That's why you got understand.
Yes sir. 0 1 2 uh I variable memory value zero number
variable memory no value plus plus I read value substitute sorry increase
value substitute. Uh then a + i. A plus of 1. What the
value? 10. 10 substitute plus plus i. Plus plus i means what? Increase two.
Two substitute. Plus uh plus plus i again increase three. Three.
Then total result stored in num. Num is 15. I have drawn memory in front of you.
That's why you understood. If you also written by yourself, you will also understand. There is no confusion. Yes sir. Thank you sir. Uh all guys come
and tell me what is the answer of this program. Again I return I equal to number equal to Z. Both are make zero.
And now previous value is what? Five and sorry three and
15. Now tell me what the next output unmute.
What a mute yourself. What is the output now? A here plus I have taken. Here I ++
I have taken what? 0 ++
1. Uh here I ++ 2. Uh what the value total
5 + 1 + 2 8 uh I value 3
Okay. Now three and eight. Listen carefully. The reason I gave you this
question, you know, right? Bracket always first executed. Remember?
Uh listen. Unary operators and bracket has the same priority.
Unary operator and bracket has same priority. Tell me plus+ is binary
operator. Unary operator.
Tell me where is that second operator? Blindless fellow. A brainless fellow plus I plus is a
operator taken one operent. I is a unary operator or binary operator. Unary
operator. Unary operator and bracket have the same priority. So if unary
operator first appear that unary operator is executed then following by plus uh if you give the bracket first
priority output will be what? Plus plus one first executed here what is the value? One here one and plus I what
value will come here? Two no one. Yeah 0 1 and now one increase
two a of two means what is coming? 15 message is output is changing. So if you
give bracket if you follow Bas rule bracket first execute will not work out here. Okay unary operator and bracket
having same priority left to right whichever coming first that is executed. Remember that is the reason I have given
this question here. Okay. Side rad
plus - unary operators
plus minus minus here. Here only side you write plus plus minus minus are
unary operators.
Plus, plus minus minus or operators
willister unary operators, unary operators
and bracket. Bracket and symbol, right?
Unary operator and bracket have same precedence.
have same precedence. Comma means whichever comes first
whichever comes first
that is executed first.
Here in this expression, Here in this expression,
Here in this expression, uh, round bracket plus I.
Here in this expression, round bracket plus I. Round bracket. Not uh, plus I is
not executed. First, close bracket. uh is not executed first.
Everyone get point why I'm why I'm making this point here. Uh in a previous
example into plus which is having first priority
into I don't want execute into plus I want execute first what we did we place
in the bracket first bracket executed then into executed. Okay. But now here I
place the bracket to ++ I. Is plus I bracket first executed? No. Why? Because
bracket and plus I both are having what? Same priority.
If bracket have the first priority, the result will be different. Okay. Here 10
will not come, 15 will come. Everyone understand? Everyone babu
understood? Understand a point? Now tell me here who is executed first in the next expression
bracket first executed a of I executed why a executing
uh because they are same priority because unary operator bracket have the same priority got clarity uh next down
tell me now what is the output here
what is 001 What is this number?
Integer. In our mathematics, we have four types of integers are there. Binary integer,
octal integer, decimal integer, hexadimal integer. Today I'm releasing
videos on literal. Sunday for Sunday assignment I'm releasing videos yesterday already recorded today
tomorrow also I'm recording and I will release literal entry questions complete details okay you must complete watching
on the Sunday if you don't learn literal full details like the so many bits you will miss the marks
okay now so Sunday is a working day where you are working
not in the classroom in your room what chapter you are learning
literal. So from here onwards, every Sunday you are going to get interview questions.
Every Sunday you are going to get entry questions. Okay? So you have to practice those entry questions. Uh Sunday is not
a holiday. From now onwards you have to work in your home and you have to complete those entry questions. One week
related entry questions I will share. Huh? Tell me now. 01 any integer number
starts with zero is not a decimal. It is a octal. It is a octal number. 0 0 1.
This is what octal. Start with zero. It is octal number. Uh octal number means you have to multiply it by 8 power 0.
From right to left each number you should multiply by 8 power 0 8 power 1 8
power 2 and add the final result. So 0 0 0 1 1 into 8^0 plus 0 into 8 power 1 + 0
into 8 power 2. Okay. Uh now 0 into anything is what? 0. Now so you have to
consider last one 1 into 8 0 8 0 value what? 1 into 1 1. And what the p value?
1. Understood everyone? Next tell me now Q equal to 0 1 0. Now tell me this is
also this is also octal number because it starts with what zero. Uh now tell me
how to convert this octal number to the decimal number to use in the calculation. Uh when the value storing
in the variable or when the value used in the expression it is converted to
decimal number. How it is converted to decimal number? * 8 power uh 0 into 8
power 0 + 1 into 8 power 2 + uh sorry 8
power 1 + 0 into 8 power 2 and tell me what is the value 0 into 8 0 plus 1 into
8 power 1 8 into 1 8 correct uh what the
0 1 0 8 what the q value 8 r equal to
this starts with zero no one one means decimal as it is 100.
So if you don't know this is a octal number if you consider as a regular mathematics ah start with a zero ignored
then your marks are losing. So what is the P value here?
One students. What the Q value? Eight.
What is R value? 100.
Everyone understand? Online students offline. When I say online, offline also
will come into picture. Everyone understand how the conversion happen?
Simple. 0 into 8^ 2 + 0 into 8^ 1 + 1 into 8 power 0.
Uh 0 into 8 power 2 0 + 0 into anything is 0 + 1 into 8 0 1 into 1.
Then total value is what? one. This is the conversion 0001 conversion.
What is the 0 1 0 conversion? It is a octal number. Uh first 0 into
8² + 0 into
1 into 8 power 1 + 0 into 8^ 0 +
8 + 0 value is 8. And now tell me - P decrease
use 0 plus Q ++ use increase 9 - R -
use decrease
- R decrease and use
plus Q decrease and use -
p decrease -1 and use plus q - use decrease
- p decrease -2 and use
uh everyone got same way the too.
Uh 8 - 100
uh - 98 - 98 How much?
188 uh plus 10 uh - plus.
Okay. You are very strong in mass. I am double strong in mass.
What is the output? S value is
P value minus 2, Q value 9, R value 98.
Obviously result will be minus 116
adjone understand
so liter topic is very important from the interview point of view. Uh now next
what did you understand from here? Any confusion? Double quotes 123 is a string dot
carrot. What is coming? One. One means two.
What the CH value? CH value is
huh? CH value what 2 Y 50
you are assigning the two to car what do you call car variable now? It's not in
literal. What is stored in CH? Two only. Okay. Uh next now you are using the
character inware calculation. Whenever you are using calculation character is
promoted to in I told you. So single code two substituted here
and increased to next number. What is that? Three. Single code three
plus plus ch increase it to single code four
and single code four. Uh single code to what? 50 +
52 now single code to four value 52 50 + 52 one
not two let's see
one or two coming now and if you print ch what the ch value we will get four
control 1
Okay. Uh this is why you have to work
easy. If you draw memory, easy. If you don't draw memory, tough. Java is the most easiest and fun language to learn.
Provided if you draw memory. Java is very very very very easy
language. Only thing is you have to draw memory. Each line raw memory
when ask value will come into picture when we use the character with arithmetic operator or with in variable
ask key number will come into picture. So plus+ plus operator to perform 50 52
come into picture. So total result is 1. If you have any confusions ask
no confusions we'll go to the next topic.
So finally tell me what is the meaning of pre-increment operator
increase read substitute what the meaning of post increment
read substitute increase and use which value
original value original value pre-increment means increase read
increase value substitute and use increased value post increment means
read original value increase the value in the variable in the expression use
original value in the next line either pre-increment or po post increment result value is increased value so
that's simple calculation you try and now let's go to the next operators right
relational operators
relational operators on incrementing decrementing operators there is no project related story. Okay.
So as part of our regular programming wherever you want increase one value they will use most of the time increment
decrementing operators we use with the loops
relational operators. Uh one minute buddy let me give the conclusion on
increment decrementing all these 10 points. Uh please answer how much you understood. How many operators are there
in incrementing decrementing? Two plus minus minus plus is used for increase
the value by one. Minus minus is used to decrease by one. Plus plus is of two operators pre-increment post increment.
Minus minus also two operators pre-increment post increment. What type of operator? Unary. It takes only one
operent. Which side? Either left side or right side. Is there
any difference in placing left side right side? Yes. If you place variable left side, post increment. If you use
variable right side, pre-increment, brother, daily you are sleeping, it's not good.
Why? Yesterday sleeping, today sleeping. Remove cap.
If you remove cap, you will not sleep. No problem. Any problem to hear?
not understand English. If you don't understand English, I'll tell in Hindi.
Remove. Okay. You are daily sleeping. That's why
I'm I'm getting down. Yesterday sleeping, day before yesterday sleeping. No problem. Huh? Don't sleep. Huh? Very
important topic. Types of operators. How many is a unary operator? Okay. Now,
what what is the operant allowed? Variable name. Variable name. Which side allowed? Left side, right side. Is there
any meaning difference in left side, right side? Yes sir, that's what we practice these many examples. Clear? Uh,
next, what are the operants allowed? If you remember assignment operator, all
types of operants are allowed. If I use plus operator only number, string
allowed. Number character, string allowed. Boolean not allowed. Regular class object and array object not
allowed. Minus operator if you take uh only number character allowed like that
for plus minus minus which type of operent is allowed tell me is lit
allowed operent operent allowed operent is
literal allowed as a operent for assignment operator can I use literal as a operent
go back syntax syntax of assignment operator variable name equal to value
which side litally is allowed as a operator. Left side or right side? Right side.
Left side allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Uh variable left side, right side, both side allowed. Expression
right side allowed. Left side not allowed. Uh method method call right side allowed. Left side not allowed.
Left side must be container storing point. Okay. Uh tell me now for plus
operator. Can I use literal both sides? Plus operator left side, right side,
both sides say lit allowed. Yes. Expression allowed. Yes. Because plus operator is storing a generating result.
Generating result. It is not meant for storing anything. Right? So left side, right side, literal allowed, variable
allowed, expression allowed and method call is allowed. Now come to the plus+ operator. Plus+ operator is meant for
only generating result, storing also. Suppose if I write 10 plus, what the
meaning of 10 plus? Increase the 10 store in the 10.
What the meaning of a ++? A = a + 1. If I write 10 + what the meaning of it? 10
equal to 10 + 1. 10 + 1 is okay. The result 11 where I have to store in 10.
How is it possible to store in 10? So tell me can I use a lit as a oper? No.
Write down rules
to both plus and minus minus to both plus and minus minus operators.
Only only
variable name only only variable name
is allowed as operand is allowed as operand.
If we use
If we use literal
or
expression or or
methodical As a operent
compiler will throw error.
Write that. A++ allowed. 10 + not allowed.
What is a ++ equal to some value five?
Next, what type of operants allowed? We have primitive data type oper and class.
Uh, can I use byte? Yes. Short? Yes. Int, long, float, double, cap, yes. Just
now shown. Boolean. Boolean not allowed. String.
Increase a string by one character. How to increase string by one? How is it
possible? Understand? Increase the string value by
one. How is it possible? Is a string can perform addition operation? Increase by one and concatenation or addition.
Increase value by one means what? Addition. Can I use plus as a addition
on a string? Not possible. If you try to use compiler throw error. Uh tell me here I'm going
to write boolean. B equal to true.
Uh B++ allowed not allowed. How to increase the true by one value? Next I
am writing here string sub1 equals to double quotes a
s1 plus plus. What the meaning of s1 +
increase string value by one. How to increase string value by one?
What I can do on string addition concatenation? Sir double quotes say after double
quotes B that is character single code A next single code B single
code B next single quotes C that is character double quotes say after double quotes B no that is wrong third okay
when you write in double quotes it is not alphabet it is not letter it is what string it is a one character string what
is the next character of the nobody knows so on string I cannot perform addition on string I can perform only
concatenation that is wrong. Clear my point? Right. Right. Next rule. Rule number two.
The allowed operand types. The allowed operand or variable types.
The allowed operand or variable types are
by you can write shortcuts if you can remember. B S I L F D C bite short int
long float double
bite short in long double cap bite short ink long float double cap
next we cannot apply we cannot apply
we cannot apply Try ++ and minus minus operators
on boolean comma
string comma array
and class type variables.
We will get compile time error.
We will get compile time error. Write down those two points. Boolean variable and string variable.
Here there will be a option for you nicely to trap you. Option number one
double quotes B. Option number two compile time error. No
double quotes B, double quotes A, compile time error,
runtime error. Four options will be there. Uh majority people will choose
uh B. Paka they will choose B because why plus+ means what? One number double
quotes and next number or double quotes B. That's why double quotes B that is only possible for car not to string. So
what the right answer? Compile them. Write options also side for your
understand
plus is only addition operator.
++ is only an addition operator, comma,
but not concatenation but not concatenation.
Tell me sir, next point. What is the result type?
Result type is a number of boolean object number.
Even if you apply on character also the result is number. Which type of number? int. Right? The result type of plus
minus minus.
The result type of plus and minus minus is
number type based on wait. Number type
by two byte or short r
int or long or float or double
based on the variable type.
based on the variable type.
Please stop if we up. Uh,
one second sir. I want to confirm this point.
Now, okay. If you apply,
If we apply, If we apply
plus -
character
Character. The result type is what? Character.
Character or int.
Is int. Write on this.
Only this much.
One second.
One second.
One second. One second.
Okay. Actually, I got doubt. Uh I confused here.
Corrected. Sorry. What? Right. When you apply plus+ and minus minus on
character type, result type is not intrig of int result is care, comma, the next
character or before character. the next character or before character.
Why I'm highlighting this point? If I use plus operator directly, the result
type is what? Int. Okay. Now plus operator result type is
int. If I use plus+ the result type is not int. Result type is what? Cap. This
is very important. If I use it directly plus result type is in plus. If I apply
on care okay on ch on character if I apply ch +
1 result is what int. If I use ++ CH++
if I use result is not in it is what cap here what is output printed B
right down these two examples and also this
you can take it as CH
that two will confuse you directly K C equal to single code Okay. Plus plus C h
B
comma not 98
down you write here C ch + 1 what is the output we will get here 98 CH + what you
get This is very important you should know.
Plus operator generates result is in plus+ will returns the same variable type.
There is no conversion. The same result type will return.
completed. Okay, let me tell you the background formula is write on
plus+ operator formula
formula or full form is actually I want to tell this point
via video but okay uh plus+ operator formula
or full form is
variable plus variable type
variable + one. The formula
variable ++ means variable equal to variable of type variable + one.
Okay. Now uh if you write here CH++ and tell me
what the formula ch equal to what the CH type care of what the variable CH + 1.
Uh tell me CH equal to Car of
Car of Uh what do you write? CH value what single quote A + 1 uh then CH equal
to care of single code A converted to 97
+ 1 and then CH equal to care of 98
now 98 is converted to what care then result is single that's how single B is
H for arithmetic operators it converts.
Everyone understand this one? Okay. Done. Same thing applied for every not
only character to all numbers. Okay. The above formula is applied for every type
of variable. Just write that point otherwise you may feel only character. Above formula
is applied for every for for
all number type and care variables. for all number type and
care variable. For all number type and care variable
for all number type on care variable. Uh everyone tell me can I write a + b as
a single statement? Can I create this expression as a single
statement? No. Can I write a = 10 as a
single statement? Yes. Assignment operator I can write as a single statement. Of course int is there
before. Okay. Inta declaration is there after int declaration. Can I write
assignment operator as a single statement? Yes. Arithmetic operator as a single statement? No. Can I use a ++ as
a single statement? Yes. Can I use int b equal to a++ as a variable assignment
statement? Yes. Can I use system outp
as a argument of one method? Yes. So I can use plus+ as single statement
because internally it contains what? Assignment. Okay. Right on. Next point.
What is this one? Where are we allowed to place in an expression? In an expression,
in an expression, I can use In
++ -
plus, - single statement.
as a single statement because
it has assignment internally.
Because it has assignment internally.
Write down all three. A + B wrong. A equal to 10 right. A + right. A++ right.
A++ right better. You can write any order. No
problem.
You can write any order. No problem.
and
no need. Okay.
and b variable how can I use a plus b how can I write a equal to 10 not allow
that's why in notes you can write however you want but in system
should follow syntax where will you type all these things in your main method
uh completed uh what is the next what is the operator
precedence and associivity in which order operator executed ++ executed. Left to right. Left to
right. Now, left to right. Tell me plus+ A. If you write, what is first executed?
Plus+ then A. First, then second.
If I write a ++ uh what is executed first? Yes. Then
plus+ what is the order of execution? Left to right. Right on that point.
Its execution order is left to right. Its execution order is left to right.
Its execution order is left to right.
Its execution order is left to right plus plus a 1 or 2 a + 1 2
left right. Next
what is the operator array? What you written? President associ
left to right is called associivity.
Sorry, strike off. Right. Execution. No, not execution. Execution.
Associivity. Order. Strike up. Execution.
Associivity. This one. Uh, left to right.
Next, its precedence is highest priority. Highest precedence. Next point. Its
president is highest precedence.
It's preceded highest precedence and same precedence with
and same precedence with other unary operators.
Same precedence with other unary operators
and bracket. Okay, this example already we have seen.
I'm not going to. Okay. Shall we try one example
otherwise? In a = 10
in b = + a, + a +
a + 10 +
c. uh what did the output tell me here
and here I'm writing a minus 10 20 otherwise I have written like this
okay uh if I write like this what is the execution order first plus one next plus
a 2 and then remaining pluses are executed
same one if I write like any difference if I write here a bracket
here suppose I'm writing bracket here
okay for for understanding I'm writing M1 here uh I'm writing bracket here
if I write like this any Perfect. Is M1 first executed?
No. What is executed? ++ then ++ A then
M1 bracket has same period. Okay. Uh just leave it just for understanding. Just leave it. Don't write already. We
have seen the previous program. Next unnecessary more points more confusion. Next operator uses in combination with
other operators. If I use plus+ combination with other operators, which operator first executed? Plus+, minus,
minus first executed because it is having highest precedence. Sample programs, entry questions, OCJP bits,
everything is covered. That's all about increment and decrement operator. All points are completed. Assignment
completed, arithmetic operator completed, increment and decrement completed. Next, write relational
operators. Relational
operators.
Okay. Strike up compound assignment operators.
This compound assignment operators because there is a link between plus+ and
compound assignment that's why uh
no please go ahead right compound assignment
operators
in future he will recolct our class hey that day he forgot to tell him Mr. compound. Okay. Uh write compound
assignment operators. All right. The combination of
the combination of assignment operator.
The combination of assignment operator and other calculation operator
and other calculation operator is called
is called compound assignment operator.
is called compound assignment operator
is called is called compound assignment operator right Java supports
Java supports 11 compound assignment. and operators.
I don't
write on these operators. 11 operators.
Tell me what is the difference between plus equal to and plus+
in plus also we have plus and assignment. Now plus equal to component is also plus a
assignment is there. What is the difference between minus minus and minus equal to in minus minus also minus equal
to is there also minus equal to is there. What is the difference between them? Plus plus increase the value
exactly by one. minus minus decrease exactly value by one and do we have any
into into no divided by divided by no but here we have the support when we
need to increase or decrease a variable value by a given value by a given value
not by one not by two given value and store the result in the same variable we
can use compound assignment operator int equal to 10 uh What the meaning of the
statement? The statement meaning is
a = to a + 5
1 second a = uh okay a = a + y for the
time being write this. I'll tell you the formula. Now write up write on this
All people look at here by B1 equal to
10. B1 equal to B1 + 1. Is this line
compiled? Yes sir.
No compiler throw error. Why?
In an expression bite is promoted to
in plus one is what don't look at like a mathematician cons
look at the statement as a compiler and JVM compiler work with actual value or
type type B1 what type by is promoted to what type in int plus int
Result is what? In tell me can int variable? No. Compiler throwing.
Understood? No sir. I want to store the result inside byte variable only. Then
use cast operator explicitly by your own. How to write the cast operator explicitly by your own? B1 equals to B
byte of byte of uh what do you write? B1
+ 1. Understood? Uh tell me now what is this
expression result type? Int. int is type cast to by possible. Yes. What is coming
out? Bite. Bite can be stored in by now it is compiled.
Are you guys understand? Now observe if I use how much you want to increase
exactly by one. If I use instead of writing B1 equal to B1 + 1, can I write
B1 ++? Yes sir. Now will you get any error? No.
Because implicit casting is there. What was the formula I told you? B1 equal to
uh variable name equal to variable type of I told you now uh what do you write here? Bite of uh of B1 + 1.
Then what happened? B1 + 1 int int type cast to byte bite is stored in B1. Who
is doing this job? Are you doing a compiler doing a compiler doing this job? You don't need to do anything. So
tell me if you want increase a value exactly by one and store in the same
variable. Don't use regular plus operator. Use plus+. That is the advantage. Okay. Now next tell me I want
increase not by one. I want increase by two or three or five. I want increase the value by five. How to write now? B1
equals to B1 + 5. Can I use plus operator? No, I should use + 5. Increase
the value by five and store in different variable. Same variable. Same variable. Compile not compile.
Not compile. Why? It is a int cannot be stored in by. Tell
me if I use B1 plus= 5.
Tell me what you want. I want to increase the value by five and store in the same variable. Can I use in place of
assignment plus separately? Can I use plus equal to? Yes. If I use plus equal to, what is the advantage? Advantage
number one. How many times I'm using the variable name? One time. Here how many times I use? Two times. uh if you want
to store the result in the same variable I have to write explicitly casting
what I should bite of B1 + 5 I should write explicitly but whereas if I use
compound assignment operator or incrementing operator what the advantage I should use variable name only one time
and next I no need to use the assignment I'm sorry cast operator compiler will
add cast operator implicitly Three are catching my point. So what the
advantage number one? Advantage number one.
It is a short shortcut. It is a it is a shortcut operator. We we
need to use variable name only one time. Okay. Shortcut and a short circuit. Again we may confuse
here. We need to use variable name only one time. Second, it implicitly applies cast
operator to destination variable type. We no need to add cast operator. Observe
if I write int a= 10 a= a + 5 a + 5. If
I write here what happened with a ro means arithmetic operator plus we must use
variable name two times a a with co means compound assignment operator we
need to use variable name only one time. Next by b equal to 10. If I use arithmetic operator directly by
increasing the pi compiler throw error possible lossy conversion from in to by
uh you have to write explicitly by cast with arithmetic operator plus we must
use cast operator explicitly uh with the compound assignment operator
we don't need to use a cast operator implicitly. Implicitly
compiler will add cast operator point otherwise you will fail in the
interview. Okay. Uh please add these points.
Come on. Come on. Right fast.
Huh? Japan.
completed. Huh?
Huh? Tell me what is the output of this statement.
Write down. Why don't I tell you
Don't use your brain. Whatever the explanation I gave, what is the meaning of a +al? What the meaning of the
statement? I already told you, right? What the
meaning of a +al 5? A = A + 5. Huh? Same
way. A into apply. What the meaning of this statement? You explode then write.
Expand. Expand that expression. Write the expansion and then answer.
Expand that expression then answer.
Find output. expand that expression. Find output
everyone. 150
right? Not five or 150. Hey
150. What is your answer? 5.
What is your answer? 150.
What is the formula? A equal to uh a + 5 cast operator.
What the advantage of this plus operator assignment operator? Cast operator also will be there. Now a equal to a type.
What a type int of what is the full form here? I already
explained. No, I forgot. ++ and compound both are same.
What the full formula? A = Okay. Variable
name equals to variable type bracket variable name plus
value. This is the foreigner, right?
Uh then for example if I write a = int a = 10.
If I write a += to 5. What the meaning of this statement?
A = a type is what? Int int of bracket a
+ 5. That is the formula. Okay. Now apply
same formula a = 10 semicolon a you work
with plus now I'm asking work with what into a into = to
a + 5 extra I can write some expression right operant can be a expression a
into= a + 5 uh apply the same formula and tell me
a = int of A +
A into A + 5, right? Uh what do you write? What do you write? A =
uh int of variable type into of bracket uh A into you have to take this into now
this one. A into you have to take this side available A into here following by
A + 5. Uh this is the formula. What is the
output 1? Why a value?
Uh a value evaluate
a = int of what?
A value what? 10 into 10 + 5. Wow. Uh
tell me which operator first executed bracket uh 10 into 10 100 + 5 k a = what
int of 100 + 5 super.
Okay, now everyone understood. Wonderful. Super marvelous. Wrong
answer.
Okay. Now it is a wrong answer.
H listen listen listen.
You are using into ala with assignment operator
into equal to is the highest priority operator least priority operator.
Assignment assignment means what? Last which one should execute first
expression then multiply then store
assignment compound assignment operator is the last operator. How many operators
are here? Two. How many operators? Two. Compound assignment operator and plus
who is having highest priority? Plus posive execute A + B then go for into A.
Understand what man? Not understand
what? Positive priority multiplication but is a multiplication assignment.
It is a one operator into equal to is one operator. It's not two operators. It is one operator. Which operator you have
used? Multiplication of multiplication assignment.
Don't separate. It is one operator. Compound assignment operator. Hello. What is the priority of
all 11 assign compound assignment operator? last last priority. So here how many how many
operators I use in this expression? Two. It is not into they
compound multiplication compound assignment priority.
Okay. Right. It's the last priority. What the first priority? Plus uh so
don't show your wow uh tell me here what is the expression
five bracket wrong answer
okay wrong answer huh what I have tried a into equal to first I have to execute
this what A value 10 +
5 uh then
don't write why you writing did I ask you to write now tell me a into 10 + 5 what the 10
value 15 uh then now explode
a into 15 then what a value 10 10 into 15
15 understood
one second don't write I said what I said did I ask you to write
let us see in the system
India equal to 10th a into equals to a + 5.
Okay. Here what this operator is one operator and plus is a another operator.
Here in this expression we have two operators. Which operator has high priority? Plus is having high priority.
First it should be executed and then equal to should be executed. So what is
the output? system dot out dot print ln of a control 1
compile control 2 what the output expectation
150 what is coming understand uh now I want
to take another example a = 10 I want you only solve ready
don't write don't write evaluation uh I mean This see here I don't want you
write evaluation main because not is not completed. Some more points I want to uh what do you call confirm I'm writing a
into equals to a ++ output in
a + r ++ anything is okay.
Huh? First into plus execute uh evaluate evaluate a into
equals to + a. What the value? 11.
Uh then a + 11.
A into a into a into 11. A into 11. A into 11. A value is what?
10 10 11
10 11 array you have taken here plus a
a value already increased what value 11 11 to 11 what the value
121 let's see save it uh display system
dot outprint ln a control 1 compile
Control 2
understand why I taken second test case. Okay. So you should not show your
apply the formula. What is the formula? Listen listen
listen listen. The formula is a = to a type is int bracket. Listen everyone
right listen and you are writing also to fellow look at it. A equal to int of a
into a into whatever you are writing assignment operator right side place in
bracket a + 5. Okay. Now everyone understand? Uh next
you should not execute a into file. You have to execute what first in an
expression expression evaluation order. Step number one. First step what do you
call exploder? What is expand? Expand this operator. First step expand the
operator by applying the formula. Second step replace variables with values. A
equals to uh what do you write here? In left to right replace the variables with
the values. What the a value? 10 into bracket. What the a value? 10 + 5.
Understand? Uh by the time you are evaluating the expression to find the
result, you should not have any variable in the expression. You should not have
variable in the expression. All values must be literal. Uh so first replace left to right replace variables A a
everywhere don't follow the priority nothing everything you have to replace variable with values uh then after you
start do the calculation according to precedence apply the operator precedence 10 + 5 what 15 then 10 into 15
150 150 type cast to 150 type cast to int what the value 150 Understood? Now
apply the same formula here and tell me the result. Now tell me
uh first what I have to write here a first first what I should uh expand the
operator a = int of int of a into
bracket a ++ a ++ okay plus a semicolon
okay now uh then now you have to replace variable which Assignment left side or
right side? Right side. Hey, left side. If you replace, how can I store value? Assignment operator left side should not
replace a equal to uh here what the a value 10. Uh now plus a
11 11 and a value is what? Here first a value what? 10. And the 10 replace with
11. 11 will come there. Uh now next uh 10 into 11 how much? 110 type cast to
in what the value 110 what the a value coming 110
understand previously you told 121 but now what the output 110 why 110
understand uh first you have to expand the operator then you have to replace
variables with values output is 110 see Java very tough one Java not tough
algorithm algorithm you have to apply That's it. You have to remember Java is nothing but operators is nothing but
maths. Like how you remember a plus b whole square. Same way you have to remember. Listen only one point you have
to remember sir. Here onwards here onwards here onwards. Here onwards here
onwards. Here onwards up to now you are answering
all the 10 questions. Here onwards you got to remember procedure to evaluate an
expression must check all operants are compatible or not. Uh yesterday we check
this point a + 2 we got compile time error. A plus single quote a no compile
time error. Uh a plus double quotes a no compile time error. First check all operants are compatible or not. Yes.
Next. Replace all variables and method calls with their values from left to
right. Before replacing right side variable with its value, left side must not have
any variable left side. Now I'm moving to A plus B is there before replacing B.
Left side A should not be there. All left side must be lit. Then go to right side to replace variable. Then go to
right side. left to right side you should keep on change the variable values to val variable names to values.
Next, after all variables and method calls are replaced with their values, we must evaluate operators based on their
precedence into first plus first plus plus first bracket first. You have to verify that. Okay. Next, while
evaluating operator both operators must be of same type. Last class we return 10 + 20.5 10 promoted to what 20.5 double
quotes a plus 10 10 converted as what? Double quotes 10. Okay. And next we must
promote lesser type operants to highest range data type used in this expression.
Then we must perform calculation. If you remember these four steps
you can you can answer any expression correctly. Okay. Huh? Okay.
Okay. No, not okay. Generally this is very very difficult
for faculties for students also. That's why this all not talked in the regular classes
plus equal to what right? A equal to a + 5 I that's all component assignment
operators over ah tell me arithmetic operators how many are there? Five. What the five? 10 + 20 30 10 - 10 uh 10 - 20
- 10 uh 10 into 20 30 uh 200 10 by 20 zero. Like this just a simple
mathematical expressions completed gone. Completed one twist point also will not be covered
as part of college as part of a pit. It's a open challenge. Okay. Uh why?
Because students are not ready to learn that much depth. I'm not talking about faculties. Faculties are not not bad.
They are good but students are not good. Now see now all
uh movie industry all movies are coming what? Everything is uh not graphics
crime based movies, devil based movies. Okay. And one more I don't want to talk
that it is a classroom. Now right only on these three based only movies are
coming. I like family audience. How can you watch movie? I'm getting tension with my son. If I go to theater nama
nowadays I'm stop stop going. He's calling daddy what is that? What is that? And what should I answer?
Okay. So that's why we stopped going to theaters. Okay. When movies are coming
just we are watching and if I find any horrible stories I'm asking I go when he's not there then we are watching. So
what should we do? Okay, that's how people are you know based on the audience real I'm telling based on the
audience now the government will be there based on the audience directors and producers are producing the movies
based on the students faculty will teach the content but I am different even you cry also
because my content is not for your understanding my content is meant for making you ready for interview in the
interview these points will be there if you put your efforts to understand everything is easy uh without explaining
I am not forcibly taking you the point first I am giving one bit making you commit mistake okay now there you are
committing mistake and giving wrong answer your mind is looking at again wrong why wrong because you followed
wrong algorithm what the right algorithm right algorithm if you follow this
algorithm now I will give notes I'll give you notes.
That's why you are not understanding. Ra
can you tell one minute look at the
h. So this is the expression you have to apply. Are you people got clarity? This
is the second level. First level with addition arithmetic plus+ we got some idea little bit idea now I'm taking you
to the next step what is the next step first you have to check operants are valid or not all are compatible then
replace variables with the values from left to right when you're moving right left side should not have any expression
means variable or method call should not be there then you have to evaluate the
expression based on the operator precedence okay uh then While evaluating
the particular operator both operants must be of same type. If you have lesser type highest type then convert them into
highest range data type and evalate find the result by applying these four points. Now we are we are finding output
here. Are you people understand? Right. Right.
Here what every cast uh compound assignment. 1
minute. 1 minute. 1 minute. Uh, whatever the expression I told here,
it is wrong. A into a = 5. All people told what the answer 5 is wrong. What
the right answer? 150 is the right answer.
Next. All right. Uh yeah. Okay. here because
because into equal to is executed
after plus.
Compound assignment operators have
less lo last last precedence.
A = 10. A into = to
+ A. Here you told answer is what? 121.
Again wrong answer.
What the right answer? 110 is correct answer.
Little bit horrible. No problem. If you practice today, tomorrow class is very easy. Listen, today if you don't
practice this slide, tomorrow more points I'm adding. Double and
double operator is coming. If an expression contain double and double are another story is coming. That's why you
have to practice today class. Compulsory you have to practice. Huh? Now write down last point. Time up. Do you have
another class? Another class. Write
on this point only. Every cast operator sorry compound assignment operator.
Every compound assignment operator
wait. Executed with this formula. Let me remove this. Write down this
with this formula. Variable name equal to
variable type bracket variable name.
Uh what is this operator? OPR. OPR means operator bracket
expression
A + B minus C or whatever if you write A=
A type bracket A + B minus
here. B minus C is the expression.
Write down for example
uh if you don't apply this formula you will get output is different. What do you write? A uh if you don't apply
formula uh what do you write now? 2 a 10 into 2 20 20 + 3 23 you'll get
output. No formula
output is 23
with the formula
output is 50.
Apply for
What will be there in the exam? First is 23.
Okay.
Uh tomorrow shall we write these two points or today you have times?
Tomorrow
Manish Gupta, do you have brother or sister?
Manish Gupta, do you have sibling? Okay. Is your brother or sister affecting your life?
And then divine soft air also will not affect your life. If you feel affected affected
if feel not affected not affected it's in your hand.
What? Writing a going.
If you want to go go. If you want try
plus a plus and also
please practice all these points today. Explanation compound assignment operator. You have to remember plus+
operator expression compound assignment operator expression evaluation. Very important.
Every expression before evaluating you should apply formulas.
Admin check

