ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
Last class we completed operators up to two equality right? Uh can I use
equality operator on all types of operates? Is there any restriction on double equal
to not equal to operator? What is the purpose of equality operator
for comparison? Both are equal or not. Can I use can I
say two primitive values equal or not? Can I say two characters equal or not?
Can I say two strings equal or not? Two arrays equal or not?
or no s we can say two arrays equal or not. We
can say two objects equal or not. Class objects equal or not. Then what is the
difference between primitive types comparison and objects
comparison? When you compare primitive types primitive values directly values
are compared. when you compare objects directly values of the object comparator reference comparator
okay reference compared already this point I covered last class okay don't forget
double equal to operator compares two objects by using reference not by using
data write note continuation
for comparing objects for comparing objects
By using by using data
by using data we must use we must use
a predefined method. We must use a predefined method called
equals. We must use predefined method called
equals parenthesis equals parenthesis.
Please list for more details on equals method.
For more details on equals method,
refer. Refer
volume 2 textbook. Volume 2 textbook.
Java library. Java library.
Second chapter, Java Library. Second chapter.
Okay. Right. Now, let's go to the next
operators quickly. Logical operators.
Logical operators.
Double N comma double N is simply you have to write
comma double R and not not means exam mark double N
double R and not are called not and not percentages
marker. This one
That is not. Okay. Double double are not are called are
called logical operators are called logical operators
are called logical operators. Please stop.
These operators are used for wait.
Double and double R are used for double and double R are used for
concatenating concatenating two boolean conditions. I mean two or
more boolean conditions, concatenating two or more boolean
conditions and generating
two or more boolean conditions and generating final result. Final boolean result true
or false. Final bun result true or false. Final boolean result true or
false.
Final boolean result true or false.
Okay. For example,
for finding for finding a number
for finding a number between between find and 10.
For finding whether a number is in between. Whether a number is in between
five and 10. We must write two conditions.
We must write two conditions with a double and operator.
With a double and operator
how tell me boolean bo equal to uh you want to find a number is in
between 5 and 10. So suppose I'm taking int some
number I am passing here. Okay, I'm not saying the number I can write. I want to find that number is in between 5 and 10.
What do you write? A greater than r = 5. Uh a less than or
equals to 10. How many conditions we got here? Two conditions. Uh you wanted to
use two conditions individually. No. Okay. For example, here I write here
say 7 uh 7 greater than or equals to 5. True. And next 7 less than or equals to
10. True. Then finally want to store true true now. Final result true. Now then what I should write between and for
concatenating these two values final result is this. This is a one expression. I want to prepare one
expression with the two conditions. There are two or more than two conditions. Then I have to use what?
Double end. Here double end what is doing it is joining concatenating two conditions and generating final result.
Suppose if I write a equal to 7 what you'll get here what is 7 greater than
or equals to 5. What the value? True and and uh 7 less than or equals to 10.
True. Then what is applied here? True. And and true. Result is coming what?
True. Understood? So finally coming what?
True. Write on the two lines under calculation if you
Huh? Completed up. Next step. Tell me I wanted to find
if a value less than five. A value and outside of five and 10. If
the value is outside of 10 and five not in between outside range I wanted to find then I should use and under or
right if you want to find the given number
if you want to find a given number
out of range of I mean outside of Five
outside of or you can say outer range outer range. If the given number is
outer range,
outer range between 5 and 10. Outer range between 5 and 10.
We must prepare two conditions. We must prepare two conditions.
With what value? With what operator? R.
Now here which operators I have to use? Greater than or less than. If a less than or equals to 5. Uh and
here greater than or equals to 10 then true.
Write down this condition.
Go.
Uhhuh. Next. H very important point. First operent what it is doing now? It
is doing concatenation. Right. Uh listen here.
First value is what? True. Second value true. What the result?
Oh, already answer that here. Now next first condition value true. Second
condition value false. Then what the result? Uh you should remember this combination.
If remember combination then all you can give you correct result. Okay. Write on down the truth table.
The truth table for double and double R.
The truth table for double and double R.
The truth table for double and double R. Listen both are true then the result is
true and remaining all cases false. At least one operent is false all are
false. This is a direct point you should remember. Next, if both both operants
are false uh then r operator value false at least
one operent is true. R operator result is what? True. So this is the shortcut you have to remember. You should not buy
hard true and true. True. True or false? True and false. True and false. No. What you have to remember? At least one
operent is false and the operator result is false. At least one operent true or
operator result is true. Both true then double and is true. Both false then
double double R is false. That way you have to remember. Right?
Right. As it is boxes,
Fast, First
One minute. I said write only write truth tables.
Why you writing down whatever visible you will copy? Uh only truth tables you write. Now
listen if you find the first operent is false
then second expression should require to execute or not equal time waste now because false and
anything is result is false then why second operent to execute waste. If
first operent is true can you decide second operent execute not execute no because the result is decided based on
the second operent true or false. If second operation is true result is true second operent false result is false. So
what is the point? Remember when when you are executing double end operator
the first operand is false then don't execute second operent directly result
is false and go to the next line to execute accepted second come to the R
operator in R operator when I require to execute second expression if first operand is true uh
then second operend value true or false result is true Okay. So second
expression required to execute or not required. Not required. First expression value false. Then can I decide it result
is false? No. Second expression I have to execute. False and true result is true. False and false result is what?
False. Clear? So you should remember this point otherwise you will lose your marks. When double and operator execute
second expression in a double and double r always two operants are not executed.
If first operent is true, second operent executed for double end. If first
operent is a false, second operent is executed for double r. Understand my point? Write in that point down.
in an expression. Okay. In a in a double end expression,
in a double end expression, both operants
both operants are not
Both operants are not executed. Both operants are not executed. Always
are not executed. Always fully stop. If first operend is
false,
comma, second operand is not executed.
underline false.
Similarly, next bullet point. Similarly, in R operator,
if first operand is true,
second operand is not second operent is not executed.
second operand is not executed and then I want to prove these points
with a program.
What the result type of uh logical operator
boolean. Can I apply logical operator on numbers and character string objects?
Yes sir. Now tell me five and six how much
also written true and true true but the first oper
should be second oper should be means boolean both it will work for both
operants should be only boolean type if you Five and six. How it will tell? True or
false? What? Understood? Can I apply logical
operators on normal numbers, characters, strings? It can apply only on right
rule.
Logical operators. Logical operators
can be applied. Logical operators
can be applied only on
only on what type? Boolean type values.
Only on boolean type values.
only on boolean type values. Uh write on this program identify output
from the below program.
Identify or find whatever the word find output from the below
First one right or wrong mark compile time error. Second one compile time error. Third one compile
time error. What are the compile time error? Bad operent types. Third one this one r
operator also compile time error. All six are compile time errors. Bad operants. Bad operants. Bad operence.
Six compile time errors. effect.
Okay. Bad operants. Bad operants. How many compile time error? Six. Uh what should I do? Silently.
Uh comment. Uh next
I write on these points until
when it is not allowed for string obviously it is not allowed for array and class also remember that something
is allowed for string class and array may not be allowed. If it is not allowed for string, array and class 100% not
allowed. Okay? Because string is a object. Array and class also object.
What the first output? True. Second, third force. First one, second, third,
false. R operator. One of the operent is true.
Result is true. And next false. Now the question here first condition is checked
second condition checked or not checked here not checked here checked here check.
Okay in these two expression second operent is executed. Okay. Uh now tell
me what is the is this line compiled or not? Tell me
inside a print ln can I call method call? Yes. Can I directly write true?
Come on. Can I write directly true? Yes. Can I write boolean variable B? Then
variable displayed. Variable value displayed. Can I write M1? Yes. M1
method displayed. M1 return value displayed. Uh M1 not displayed. M1 return value
displayed. M2 return value displayed. M1 method logic is executed. And finally
its value return value displayed. M2 logic executed and its return value is displayed. Control 1 compile control 2
uh what is the output command? I have to
from M1 returns what? False. From M2 returns what? True. Clear? Already we
have defined that methods. M1 method and M2 method, M3 method, M4 method, four
methods are there. M1 method I have already created to display what message from M1 and returns what? False. From M2
returns true. This is the logic already I have written. Then when we call here
SON M1 from here control will go to M1 method body definition. M1 method body
definition and its logic is executed. Message printed on the console word from
M1. Okay. Now right. and then return false. Return value will come on to the
console. Calling place calling place. What is the calling place? This line. This M1 is replaced with what value?
False. So what is the output? From M1 false. Next system.out print M2. When I
call M2 control will go to which line m2 method definition. M2 method definition.
What is printed on console? From M2 and returns what? True. Returns true. The
true return to which place? Calling place. Okay. Calling place this line replace with true. True is giving to
print len. Print ln is printing. Everyone understand? Now with this knowledge tell me you don't need to
write these two lines only for knowledge sake I told. And now write down these two lines and tell me out
these two lines. Come on everyone.
No write and tell me. Don't tell with your eyes. I want complete output.
I don't want just final output from true false. I want complete output.
There is a suspense. If you don't work, you will lose marks in the exam. Feel it is a exam.
Don't feel it is a classroom. It is a exam hall. This question is given. You should give right answer to pass exam.
Feel it.
completed. Now tell me what is output here.
I said complete output. When I call M1 method what is happen? I
told here M1 method logic executed now what the message printed from M1 then substituted
what false I call M2 then what happen M2 method executed then the result is
substituted right then finally double and executed and final result is generated and tell me what is the output
total output
Oh, false and true.
If I write false and true, then result is what? False. What I have written here? M1. M1 method executed.
Message displayed now. What message from M1?
Then here what is substituted? False. And then
uh from M2 methodic from M2 executed message printed on console then what is
substituted? True. uh finally
from total output I asking from M1
uh from M1 printed up substituted
why you are saying substitute I'm asking final output tell me what I see on the console from M1
from M2 final result What? False and and true. False. Okay. Final
result is what? False. I repeat once again.
Uh that's what the final output. If ask a question, what is output? You should say final output from M1 from M2. Huh?
Not read once again. When I use a double end operator, always both operants are
not executed. Number one in the market.
First operent value is false. Second operent is not executed. Not written.
Don't apply that point.
Why you are listening what I'm saying? You should stop me. You should say that is the wrong answer. You should tell me.
No, don't feel inside. Express outside. You are feeling inside and saying I love
you. I love you. Your lover will not listen your voice. Some other parts will say I love you. Gone.
Everyone understand? Tell me now. So what is the output? What is the statement I told you? If the
first operent value is false, second operent is not executed. So what is the
output? From M1 false. Why M2 not executed? Because M1 return value is
false. Understood? Write output side. From M1 false
M2 is not executed. M2 method is not executed
because first operent value is
because first operent value is
what? False.
What are you doing? Second expression. Write and tell me output
from M1
from M1. False.
Blind fellow. What I have written first then how from M1 will come
you are behaving like a lazy fellow. Come on from M2
true printed then why you are saying true? Huh? from M2.
From M1, false
from M2 from M1. False.
No wrong answer. Now what is the right answer from M2? False.
How? How you got false?
Not executable.
Speak louder. When
when second operent is not executed. If the first operent value is false.
What the first operent value? What is the first operant value?
Brother,
you are looking at my face. Seriously,
M1 method returning false. M2 is returning true. What is common substituted here? True. True means
next operant must be executed.
That's why I'm saying from the first don't use your head, use your mouth. You are not again moving head. You're
not saying okay. Now M2 return value is true. Then what is substituted here?
True. Then now this first operent value is the true. True and means second
operent must be executed. Second operent executed from M2 and substituted what?
False. room and done.
Okay. Now from M_sub_2 from M1 false
right output from M2 from M1 false.
uh write on their comment. Here second operand is executed.
Here second operand is executed
because of
first operent value is true.
Okay, really understood. Shall we do one more experiment?
Everyone ready? Hello.
No. What jokes are going on? Sleeping. Who?
Hey, show your face once. Yeah.
This much horrible story going on. You are sleeping. You are a god. We should
do them. Oh.
Uhhuh. Write down this question and tell me.
Shall I simplify it? No. Not required. Right. Tell me out. No
need to simplify when you complex the angle.
Everyone should work.
Output is hello. What is I value?
One. Hello. One. Let's
Hey, your output correct. Wow. Tell me how it is correct.
I value 1 I ++ I ++ means what is substituted there? 1 1 and I value
increased by two. Uh here expression use 1 equal to equal to 1. True
and executed and not executed.
True means what? Second operent is executed. Uh what is the I value? Two
one two two substituted one decreased one equal equal to Z false true and
false result is what false then else block high I mean hello I value is one
everyone work acting any actors are there
actors heroes hero in villains
Babu everyone understood students
any doubts uh
super thank you I will ask I will explain 100 times if you unmute
where are you sir hello sir
my speaker not Hello students, can you hear his voice?
Sir, hello.
Uh, one second. Let me check my speaker with admin.
Speaker P.
Yes sir.
Hey, can you speak now sir? Hello sir. Okay one second. Hey, one minute. Hey,
there is a big comment. I'm just surprised.
What is this? Yes, I have learned from him only around
9 years back at classroom training in Hyderabad and his videos become available online. I think from then I
was very much happy.
Okay. Huh. Hey again. You're muted, man.
Tell me what is your sus.
Next statement.
two minus one increment decrement operator
program. Yes sir. Sir operator
decrement operator sir decrement post decrement sir postcrement and
value.
What is the meaning of in memory?
Memory in my explanation block diagram memory block diagram.
Yes sir. That's the problem. See faculty will use inmemory out memory
all the nonsense. Hey don't talk here when I'm talking to
one student what he's asking what I am explaining listen you already gave answer over right what
you are discussing subject discussion huh uh afternoon what pa eat what burger you
eat huh listen what is asking think you are a faculty assume
this is pre-increment or post increment post increment ment sir post increment means first read value or
decrease value first read value sir what the value two sir
uh then decrease value by one one 2 - one
is doubt cleared sir cleared yes sir how it is cleared
sir sir
Yes sir.
Lakshmi prasad sahu.
Lakshmi prasadu.
You ask explain 38 line. Is it clear or still doubt?
Question. Okay. Write down this question and tell me output.
Fast. First fast first fast.
See when you are asking question I should know where you have confusion. Don't ask repeat again. I cannot repeat.
If I repeat 100 times also you don't understand. So I should know where is your problem.
So that I can give you clarity to your doubt confusion. So when I ask you unmute if you are fearing on going away
you never get clarity on your point. How
are
First condition is false
because first condition is false. Is second condition executed?
No. Right.
Because second condition is not executed. I value is not decreased. What's I
value? Two plus I what?
Two. Now it is not executed. Right.
First condition 2 equal to equal to 1. False. False means next condition is not executed. Control go to else and value
is I. Okay. Now one more last case.
Now you are working with R means you have to think
Hi.
Hi. Tuna now. Hi. 1
2 Okay. I ++ how much?
Here. Here. Here. Here. What the value substituted here? One one equal equal to
true. If R operator first operent is true,
second operent executed or not executed not executed. True or anything is true
then high value
already plus you executed increased by two. Huh? You didn't execute IUS minus. So what
the I value? Two. Output is high two.
Understood? I
I ++ read 1 increase two.
Then 1 = = 1 true. True or anything is
true. Then control go output is high. Then I value
output. I too high.
No. Because you gave wrong answer. Answer one more question. Correct. Why you gave wrong answer? It's
punishment.
H hello one.
Why hello one. Explain I value one.
Okay. Plus plus I increase substitute 2 = 1 false means
second operent must be executed false or I + -
what is substitute here two I value 1 2= 0 false or false then go to hello I
value two tell you wrong one because I -
executed. Hello one. All people got confidence on double and
double R.
Write down this close main method.
Main close. Write down these two methods.
Main close and write these two methods.
Then okay next operator
or sorry not operator not not operator
total three operators now double and double or not
not operate that pronounce as not not operator
It is used for
It is used for reversing.
It is used for reversing.
Reverse reversing boolean value.
True to false.
True to false to true.
True to false true true uh right system.out.print ln.
Not true.
System out.
Not true. What is the output? False.
Next. System.out Start out at print not false
truth.
Uh downright write a condition. Write a condition
to print high. to print a high
if the given number is not in between.
If the given number is not in between
is not in between 5,
10.
What are you saying? What are you doing? Write condition. Condition means what? I have to take one
variable in equal to write some number your wish 7081 your wish. Uh then if
condition means if what do you write that number not
what I said not not means you have to start with not now write on not
what you write in = 7 uh if
what I said if not not means not English word convert to operator
If not what a not in between
if not in between what you write.
Okay. If not in between means there are two conditions you can write. Okay. Look you write a less than or equals to 5.
Huh? Under
and in. R means out.
What? R. If a less than or equals to 5 or a greater than or equals to 10. Uh,
then what do you write? System dot out. print l of what you write double quotes
side this is one way of writing condition another way what you write if
uh I'm asking use not not a greater than or equals to 5 and and a
less than or equals to 10 then print both are gives the same Is it
both are But execution is different.
You will get output high but background execution is different.
Here first condition how many operants are executed?
Both executed. Both have only one only one. A seven less than five.
Less than five. Yes sir. False. False false or anything is false
directly. I printed or not printed.
Uh or if it is a false r is also executed.
What is that? 7 greater than or equals to 10. False. Now what happen? False or false?
False. I execute. Not execute.
If uh a seven if not between
not between seven I mean not between five and 10 I want execute high correct
not between then seven is in between not between in between then high should not be
executed correct only why you're confused what the statement I told Mama,
if the value is not in between five or seven, print high. Else do nothing. Is
seven in between five 10? Yes sir. Not in between.
Seven is in between five and 10. I should printer should not print.
If the value seven, if the given number is not in between
seven, print high. Is seven in between ay not in between ay
seven in between five and 10. Now tell me why should printer should not print? So not
printed correct conditionary you have written why confused? My god.
Oh my god. Uh if I write here 17
uh now tell me how printed. Uh tell me why 17 less than five
false. 17 greater than 10. True. False or true? True. High printed.
Raja. Uh now apply the same condition. Seven here. High printed or not printed?
Should not be printed. Let's see. Is my condition right or not? First not executed or expression executed. First
expression executed. Tell me a value how much? Seven greater than five. True.
When it is a true second condition executed or not executed
operator executed. So true. And what the a value? Seven. 7
less than or equals to 10. True. true and and true result is
not true false is high not executed that's what I told now if the given number is in
between 5 10 no five not in between 5 10 high that's what the expression I give
uh 17 tell me 17 greater than or equals to 5 true uh 17 less than or equals to 10
false true and and false. False false. Not false then high is
okay. Now not is little confusion topic. Okay. One more condition. Right.
Create a boolean variable available. Create a boolean variable available.
Create a boolean variable available.
Okay. Now about boolean available are writing
boolean available up question create a boolean variable
available. If not available
print high. If not available print high
boolean available equal to what is coming here either true or false I least
bother what I'm saying if not available. Not available means not
available. If not available, write what? System dot
out dot print ln double quotes.
Okay. Now this is what I ask you to write. That's it. Simple. Write up and
tell me here question mark place what you write either true or false.
If available value is true, I should execute or should not execute.
As per the question, available equal to true and available.
Available means I should not execute. False means what? Not available. Not
available means what? False. Then I should execute. Is it happening? Suppose
boolean available. I given what the value? True here. True here. And then
not true. Not true means what? False. I
executed a no. Uh now I'm writing here false uh not available. Available means
what? False. Not false means what? True. For the output. So that is what the
condition not is little confusion you have to work out reverse condition will come
you have to work out then all you'll understand
clear yesterday I gave you operator president's table did you make a note in
your notes did you write the table in your notes
silence means no aacha okay open sir I will open don't worry after going
to home copy that
tell me what is the operator presence of logical operators
are all logical operators are same priority no if I prepare an expression with and
or not which operator first executed And then R when not
after or R. What is not?
Not is a unary operator. Now which operator first executed?
Unary or binary? Unary first executed. So what is the priority of the three
operators? All three operators are having different priority. First
not executed. Next and last are if you want to change the priority
should place in the bracket. Right on operator precedence.
These three operators has These three operators has
different priority or different precedence.
These three operators has different precedence.
First not executed First not executed
then uh
and executed last R is executed.
Okay. For a changing priority,
for a changing priority, we must use bracket.
system.out print off
system.out outer print and off. Uh we have written M1 M2 method remember.
Okay, first let me write normal code.
What is the output?
What is first executed?
First it is executed output is
or
uh next what is executed
second and operator now uh what is the output we'll get from
Huh? False or false? Result is
right on that expression evaluation.
Okay done
because not is first first not executed no you write anywhere here first that is
only executed okay not is always first execute no sir I want execute this is first then what I have to write bracket
then what is first executed are true or false result is true then
not true false and true false that's way
executed okay now so please try to work out on this point with this we completed
logical and operator next write down bitwise operator
Bitwise operators.
We have four bitwise operators.
We have four bitwise operators. We have four bitwise operators.
Number one, single and comma, single R, comma, caps
and negation till negation and ta
means.
How to pronounce that? till bitwise complement.
This called bitwise complement. Right on. Single end is called
bitwise and single end is called bitwise and
second single R is called
inclusive R.
Bitwise inclusive R. Sorry. Bitwise inclusive R. Bitwise inclusive R.
Third one. Cap. Bitwise exclusive R.
Bitwise exclusive R or XR.
Exclusive R or XR exclusive shortcut called X
X R war
uh next negation I mean t what do you call it as
bitwise complement operator bitwise complement operator
yeah tomorrow we'll spend time for this around I need 15 minutes on these operators to complete double and double
today. Today shall I continue? You don't have another class at 11
no class
is there. Okay. So tomorrow we'll meet and complete that bitwise operators and with the tomorrow class we'll wind up
operators chapter. Okay, thank you. That's all for today, class.
Admin outside their
instance class.
If I write in a comp,
how can I compare two different classes?
How can I compare two different classes?
That is super classal.
Both are same type string string.
Same name you written as string to string
that is a shortcut. This is a full cut string also you can write both are
super class.
Abishekumar. So before whoops what are the chapters
are there you don't want to learn. Shall I skip them? You know already
then then you are asking to start. Whoops.
Then I will skip the topic. You should not question me. The topics are not covered.
We never talk.

