ript


Right. Good morning everyone. So any questions from last class?
Have uh are you able to develop that shift operators?
Uh what the meaning of left shift?
Move the bits to left side. Left shift means move the bits to left side.
Uh and add zeros to the left side. How many digits we specify here? Less than two.
Then how many how many bits has to move? Two bits. Then after moving then
whatever the values what is the output you got? I mean binary values you got that binary value convert to decimal
number. That number you have to display. What is right shift means? Same move the
bits to given number right side. Okay. What the double right shift?
Move double time. Huh? Huh?
Who's compliment? Okay work out work out find examples those
topics are little complex if I explain it become more complex
understand and shift operators generally we don't use in our projects development
okay that's why I have not explained if I explain whatever I taught up to now everything you will forget that much
confusion topic is bitwise operators in a data structures if you join data structures course Most of the questions
will be on bit manipulation for data structures based interviews. Uh
shift operators, bitwise operators play most important role. Many questions will come for Java interview Java projects.
Bitwise operators much questions will not be there. Don't worry. Okay. And double right shift operator never used
nowhere used no one no one teaching. So double uh left shift right shift minimum
ID required. and bitwise operators obuse you have to understand you understood already. So remaining operators work out
and plan understand. Now today let us start the next chapter right control
flow statements.
Have you written what question? Huh? Any questions in tenary operator?
Okay. Ask after class. Tenary operator yesterday assignment completed.
Okay. If you have doubts, ask me after class. Uh next we are going to move to the next
topic. Control flow statements.
uh tell me what the purpose of some people call it as uh control flow structures
different different technology they are using I wanted to use the word called control flow statements these statements
control the flow of execution that's why I'm calling them as control flow statements okay tell me if you want to
implement or if you want to develop any operation in Java or any programming language how Many activities I have to
do four. First one read store data by using data types, variables, objects,
reading runtime values. Chapter completed. Next, I want to perform different operations on this data. Then
you have to learn operators. How many operators? 40. 40 are divided into
12 groups. Are all 12 groups, all 40 operators at a time we'll use in the project? No. Okay. We are going to use
combination of operators definitely. Okay. When I use combination of operators, Java following Bmas rule. No,
of course Bmas rule is following you can apply. But Bmas rule practice is a bad approach. You have to follow operator
precedence. Already I uploaded operator president's table. Did you note down in your notes? If not, please write down
that. Okay. Leave the space and copy that. Bmas rule don't follow. Operator president's table you have to follow.
Tell me if I write the statement system. out print plus single quote a what is
the output plus single quote a if I write uh now
these are arithmetic operator plus and minus will act as a unary operator and also binary operator okay unary and
binary so plus operator right side if I place one operend what operent is allowed number or character allowed
floating point number allowed next integer is allowed character is also allowed If I write + 10, what is the
output? 10. If I write minus 10, output is what? Minus 10. If I write + 10.5,
output is 10.5. If I write minus 10.5, output is minus 10.5. If I write single
quote a single quote, a will come. It will not convert to integer. When the character
convert to integer, when I perform any arithmetic operations or when you store in a integer variable, when I assign the
character to the integer variable or when you perform the arithmetic operation, then the character is
converted to number. Uh, tell me if I use system.out and single quote a is there any conversion to 97? No. A will
come as a if I write plus single quote
a. uh what operation performing arithmetic operation plus is a arithmetic operation
it will converted to 97 97 printed check in your notes I don't know just I got
thought in my mind you know operators just I am trying to explain maybe 97 comes or a may comes I don't know you
check yourself today night and tomorrow you tell me okay next minus single quote if I write then minus a will come uh
tell me character has a 9 no character range 0 to 65,535
okay minus single quote means it is converted as what 97 minus 97 should
come check once and tell me plus true
plus true false
is a arithmetic operator can you apply on true compiler throw Error. Bad
operent type boolean to the unary operator plus
uh minus true. Bad operent type
boolean for the binary operator unary operator. Unary operator minus. So you
should have that common sense. Okay. Uh try to practice compulsory this Sunday. Spend time on operators fully. Okay. One
week of discussion we had on operators. Solid discussion we have. So if you don't practice operators, you will
forget and you'll fail in the interview. Written test exam pass or success depending on operators. Uh now today let
us start understanding the third activity controlling flow of execution.
Uh now look at here I am creating
I'm creating a method v1 method. Okay.
Inside this M1 method, I'm writing so many lines of logic.
When you call this M1 method from the main method, are all these statements are executed or not? Yes, I don't want
these three statements. I want execute always. But the next three statements I
don't want to execute always. I want execute these three statements upon some
decision. Upon some decision. If the coming value five, execute. Coming value less than
five, execute. Coming value greater than five, execute. Coming value greater than five, less than 10, execute. So I want
to put some conditions based on the condition. True value, false value. I want to take decision to execute or not
execute. Then in that case what concept I have to use control flow statements.
How many control flow statements are there? Observe. Now what is my target in the control flow statement? take the
decision whether to execute or not. Okay, I decided to execute how many
times? One timer. More than one timer. Okay, sometimes I want only one time.
Only one time execute and go to the next line. Sometimes I want to execute more
than once then go out. Okay. Now, sometimes I want
to execute more than once and go out. Sometimes sometimes I want execute here
go out terminate and go out terminate and go out so totally how many are there
three three decisions number one don't execute there is no further discussion
execute how many times one time then one control plus statement second execute
repeatedly second control plus statement execute
terminate here go out of this method to the calling method that is called what? Third control flow statement. So control
flow statements are meant for taking the decision whether to execute or not. How
many times to execute one time? A number of times I mean repeatedly a
number of times and terminate and jump to other place. Terminate and jump to other place. So control flow statements
are divided into how many types? Three types. Conditional statements. What a
conditional. Some people are calling it as a decision decision making statement. Some people are calling it as a
selection statements. Conditional statements. Decision making statements. And next selection
statements. People are calling all the three. Okay. Next second control flow statement is iterative statements
or loops. Some people call it as a loops. Some people call it as what? Iterative statements. Okay. Then next
one is what? Transfer statement. What a transfer statement. Some people also calling it as a branching statement.
Branching and from this side to that side go to. Okay. Branching statement. So what is a control flow statement? Why
control flow statement? How many control flow statements are there? What is a control flow statement? A statement
actually not a statement. Keyword. Okay. Now operator is a keyword symbol.
symbol. Uh control flow statement is a symbol or keyword. Keyword a keyword.
What is a control flow statement? A keyword. No class name only keyword. Okay. A keyword
that is used for controlling the flow of execution. Okay.
Or a keyword that helps us to take the decision whether to execute or not. Some
a statement or a block of statements is called what? control flow statement
when you write a method when you write logic when we write method with some
logic as part of the logic some statement sometimes I want to execute
sometimes I don't want to execute if you want to take decision whether to execute
or not then we have to use controlflow statements control flow statements are used for taking the decision whether to
execute or not a block of statements available In the method, how many
control flow statements are there? Three sets of control flow statements are there. Control flow statements. Totally
we have 11 control flow statements are there. They are divided into three groups. Conditional statements, loops
and transfer statement. This is my terminology. Conditional statements, loops and transfer statements. Okay.
Under conditional, how many are there? Five. Under loop, how many are there? Three. Under uh transfer statement how
many are there? Three. Okay. 3 5 3 totally 11. Understood point. First
point uh write down these points. All students everyone got clarity.
When we develop When we develop
a method
a method with logic,
when we develop
logic
When we develop a method with logic, comma, when we call it,
comma, when we call it,
the logic statements placed inside a method.
The logic statements placed inside this method
are are a r
are always executed. A are always executed.
Please stop. Next point. Sometimes sometimes
we don't want to execute sometimes we don't want to execute
some of the
sometimes we don't want to execute some of the statements
available. Some of the statements available in the
method or constructor in the method or constructor
will fully stop. Next point
to take a decision. To take decision
programmatically. To take decision programmatically.
Underline. Programmatically. To take decision programmatically.
Whether to execute or not.
We must use. We must use
control flow statements. We must use control flow statements.
We must use control flow statements. Please stop. Uh down right. What is a
control flow statement? what I have explained up to now need of
this chapter always we'll start every chapter with need following by what why
how when and then examples this is what we follow okay need of this chapter we
want to take decision programmatically whether to execute or not then we have
to use what control flow statement that is the need place the last box in the uh
last line last paragraph in the box what is written for taking decision
programmatically. That is very important. That statement place in box.
Yeah. This is the syllabus
m. Okay. This much
syllabus is bigger but fastly we can complain. Huh?
What is control flow statement?
Control flow statement is nothing but a keyword.
A keyword that is used to control the flow of execution is technically called
control flow statement statement. Only one keyword statement.
Next, why control flow statements? Control flow statements are meant for
writing logic or controlling the execution of the logic.
Logic we don't write by using control flow statements. We write logic by using operators. Variables and operators are
meant for writing logic. After writing logic now I want to control the flow of execution. What flow of execution you
want to control whether to execute or not. If you decide to execute how many times you want to execute after
execution still you want to continue or terminate. So execute or not? If execute one time or multiple times after
execution continue running or terminate totally three decisions. All right. Control flow statements are used for
taking decision to execute a block of statements either zero or one or
multiple times depending on the given input.
Today, Friday or Saturday, Thursday. Now, oh,
still we have two days to for this weekend.
Ready for Sunday classes or no? No.
45 days completed. Only 8th chapter we are in. Still we are 30 chapters.
So leave your laziness. If you are feeling lazy Sunday who will
come and
life will be gone. You are here for spending more time with me.
As much more time you spend with me that much more knowledge you will get. If you
are running away from me then obviously you are facing the problem not I. It's up to you. I am ready for Sunday
classes. Huh? Completed a
control plus statements are used for taking decision to execute a block of statements either zero or one or
multiple times depending on the given input. Continuation also it is used for
Also it is used for Also it is used for
Also it is used for terminating terminating
the current flow and send the control to
Send the control to other lines of code.
Send the control to other lines of code.
Send the control to other lines of code.
Huh? So totally tell me using control flow statements we are performing three activities. Take decision to execute
zero or one time. Second, take the decision to execute zero or n number of
times. Third, take the decision to continue running or terminate. So then
totally how many control flow statements we have? Three groups of control flow statements are there. Okay. Right.
Uh you want to write this example just read. For example, if you consider bank application in deposit or in withdraw
operations. If you want to perform deposit operation, control flow statements are operators. Operators
deposit means what? Take the balance. Sorry, take the amount. Add that amount to the existing balance. And what I
should write? Balance equal to balance plus amount. Balance equal to balance
plus amount. Why smiling so much?
say I love you that much happy smiling.
Okay. Okay. Listen. So what the example? For example, if you consider bank
application in deposit or withdraw operation, what logic you write in deposit operation? Balance equal to
balance plus amount. In with operation what logic you write? Balance equal to balance minus amount. Tell me is it a
control flow statement sir or variables and data types variables operators. We
write complete logic using data types, variables, logic I mean operators. But
now this statement should execute or should not execute depending on the amount. Now if you pass negative amount
if I deposit withdraw happen. Hello. Yes or no? You pass minus 5,000.
Balance equal to balance plus amount. Addition, subtraction happen. Subtraction minus 5,000. Finally your
money is gone. Uh in withdrawal operation if you pass positive amount then I mean negative amount what happen?
Money withdraw added added ATM machine giving 5,000 background 5,000 again
added. Finally who will close the customer or banker? Bank bank. Sober money is coming from the ATM more money
added to your account. Right? Wonderful logic you develop. So if the past value
is wrong now tell me if you consider bank application in deposit or in withdraw operation clerk will not
perform deposit and withdraw operation directly. Those operations are performed
only if the given inputs are given inputs for account number pin and amount
are valid. Here clerk place ATM you can take. Okay. Uh tell me now how the clerk
is checking the given values are right or wrong. He's having his own calculations in his brain. Now uh that
calculations how can you do by using operators and control flow statement. Which operators? Calculation operator
validation operator. Validation operators and control flow statements together will work to take this
decision. Okay. In the real life checking is done in programming by using
control flow statements and and not only control flow statements, control flow
statements and validation operators, relational operators, logical operators,
bitwise operators, equality operators will take the decision. Clear my point, right? Better write. No problem. Write
on this example. And last one, addition is there.
Take first.
This Sunday uh means March. This month month March. Okay. From in the month of
April, we will have Sunday classes also. Understand? What is our end date?
May 5th is the last date. Okay. Possible.
Possible May 5th. But I have to complete by May 5th. May 6th one day extra I will
not take. Then two options are there. You want me to skip the syllabus or you want spend more time? Choice is yours.
You want me to skip? I'll skip. No problem. No. No. Then in the month of
April because already two months completed by end of the March and you already enjoyed your holidays it's the
time you have to bend your body brain to learn more concepts when Sunday take
class Monday if you take leave uh generally Sunday I work Monday
your body not required rest remember you are all right uh get motivation from Modi
really I'm telling is a big motivation to our youngsters at the age of that much old age he is
roaming entire world without wrestlers sir no I'm not promoting Modi for
elections okay just as a motivation I'm telling you okay what he's doing for country I don't
know but just his energy levels I'm telling that's it so change your mind
and start work for yourself if you don't work yourself you will get nothing Sunday holiday festivals today.
Change your mind
here by using control flow statements and validation
operators and validation operators.
A robo means relational right shortcut. Ro comma
Evo Evo means equality operators.
Ro comma, EVO comma uh Loical operators
combination please stop bitwise operators we don't use for validation
only these three operators because they generate boolean value
add this last tag
in real life wherever you have checkings those checkings are done in Java by using not only Java did I use anywhere
Java what I have used here in programming programming means any language until I
write a program I I want to talk Java. In first day of demo class, I told you I'll make you all rounder. We will learn
concept as common to all languages and implement that concept by using Java.
After going into room you practice it and then
uh implement it by using Python. Already yesterday I told you no same concept.
Now today I okay past is past gone. Today we are learning control flow statements. Whatever the control flow
statements I explained today, can you try to also learn from Python? Just 15
minutes extra if you spend one more language will be there in your resumeum. Okay. Uh okay. Done. Next.
Java supports. How many control flow statements? Right. How many control flow statement Java
support in place of Java? What you write? Python. Okay. How many control flow statement does Java support?
Don't tell what I'm teaching in your class to your seniors and juniors.
Okay? You know if you talk to your seniors and juniors you are creating problem because I may or may not teach
everything in all batches. It depending on the batch capacity capacity and not strength
receiving capacity students receiving capacity. If student is up to the receiving interest showing interest to
receive the knowledge I'll go too deeper. If students are not showing interest I cannot teach. No. If the
students ready to eat chicken biryani I'll prepare it. If they're not showing interest, how can I prepare?
Okay. Now your seniors are not shown interest of learning all these points. So I didn't teach some points. Uh now
people are coming and questioning. Hey you in my juniors batch you taught this. You are not taught in my batch. When you
will teach in my batch so that's why don't discuss with your seniors what I taught. Okay. Just you listen. If your
seniors asked tell them something teaching Here
loop statements are what do we call iterative statements? Loop or iterative
iterative write down iterative statements here. Third first one conditional or
decision making or selection. People are also calling it as selection selection statements. Add those words so that in
future you don't have any confusion or selection statements
selecting whether to execute or not. Selection statements loop or
iterative statements.
Loop or iterative statements.
Now third one branching or transfer statements. Okay. Only two are there.
Branching or transfer there. No other word.
Uh so tomorrow someone can tell how many keywords are in Python.
Buy one new nodes today for Python. Python by whom?
Har Krishna name write in first page Python by Har Krishna. Okay when you are
teaching this is why I'm teaching only. Okay Javant your mind is I prepared only
know. So after going to Python keywords search for control flow statements in
the Google and write down in the notes don't forget. Uh then next point tell me
now what are the statements comes under conditional? Generally people say under conditional
or decision making if if else if else if else
nested if switch remember uh that is a concepts but keywords I'm talking about
now currently keywords concept later I will give the list okay but keywords
list I'm giving first uh look at here the keywords are purpose of above three
groups of control flow statements uh look at the Under conditional statements we have five keywords there if else
switch case default we didn't start program first when start program under
conditional program then I will give the list of concepts okay under conditional statements we have five keywords there
if else these two are one group switch case default another group place them in
a square bracket if else in one square bracket switch case default another square bracket what the purpose of these
three group of control flow statements. All these conditional statements are used for taking decision to execute a
block of statements either zero or one time block and meaning is what open
bracket closed bracket inside I may write one statement or multiple statements. Now control is moving from
M1 method first statement, second statement, third statement. At the fourth statement I have written if then
is it immediately go into the if? No. It stand there asking array condition. You tell me true or false. Now our
validation operator, relational operator or equality operator or logical operator
generates what? True or false? If true then go inside and now end of all three
statements executed. Is it repeatedly coming to the first statement or go to the next statement? go out of that if
block and execute next statements. That's why zero or one type. Understand? Right? Tell me. Next under under loop
statements, how many keywords are there? Three. What the three uh confusion? They are while,
do keyword. Now I'm asking about what keyword. What the keyword do. While do
while is what? Do while is a concept. But keyword is what? Do but do is having
matching with what? While. So this is considered as a one keyword only. And then what? For uh for each loop also
there sir. For each loop is developed by using for. There is no keyword called for each. That is a concept. Okay. Uh so
three keywords. What the purpose of these three keywords? Same thing. Same story. Here also decision making.
Decision making means what? Again condition must be there. Now the condition is prepared by using relational operator or equality operator
or logical operator. Any of the three operators you can use. Then first three statements are executed. At the fourth
statement I have written loop statement while or do while or for. Then what it is doing? It is asking condition or a
condition. Tell me true false true. Then go inside. Uh now execute block of four
statements. After fourth statement completed it will go out of the block or repeated repeated coming back and again
asking condition. Hi condition. Now tell me what is the true false or true? I I will go inside again four statements are
executed going out of the seventh statement. No again loop iterated again asking condition tell me third time true
or false this time. Thank you. Then go out of the block and go to seventh line and execute. Understand? So that means
all these loop loop loop and what they only there only rounding. Now in childhood did you play alability
and stretch your hands and rounding around you only? No, that is called what? Looping. Looping looping. Or all
your friends are holding the hands as a circle and going rounding rounding. Now that is called what? Loop. All these
loop control flow statements are used to take decision to execute a block of
statements either zero or n number of times. What is that number n? 1 2 r 3 r
4 depending on conditioner. Until condition value is true, loop is
iterated. Once condition value false go out of the loop until condition is false
true confusion zero to n number of times are executed
until okay you can write false or true no problem means failed until condition is
failed now number of times you keep on running okay keep on running okay false
means going out true means going in anything you can write no problem False n true comfort I I am comfortable with
what false my intention is going into the loop second time only if it is not false if it is a false it is not going
inside next last one under branching control flow statements how many are there three what are the three break
continue return now sir what about go to sir my C language has a go to that is C language no this is Java in Java we do
not have go to only three break continue All these the those branching control
flow statements are used for what purpose? Continuing or terminating? Terminating. What the purpose of
terminating? We will see later. Okay. Write down write down write down these points. Check check.
Hello Mr. Arana. I am reading what I am what I have there here. I'm not writing
anything on the screen. You also involve in the discussion. Just
I am reading the statements available here. Uh purpose of three group of
control flow statements.
Visualize what I am speaking. People are here visualizing you also. Visualize.
Don't expect everything right on the board. Look, I have explained I was talking
about the statement. Have you remember this? Three three. These three statements are
always executed. Now control is coming there and cursor blinking. Here what you write control flow statement. What
control flow statement? Conditional. If I write conditional, how many times it is executed? True. If it is a false
directly go to seventh line. Okay. If it is a true then execute these
three lines and then go to seventh line. That is what conditional statement. Sorry. Which control flow statements?
Conditional. If I write here loop control flow statement, then what happen? Again checking true. Yes. Then
go inside. Execute these three statements. Go to seventh trainer. Coming to the again conditioner again
come to condition again true execute these three lines coming back to condition again execute these three
statement coming back to condition say now false then go out to seventh line uh
now control flow statement I have used inside where somewhere break continue or return what is the meaning of break
continue return next statement executor terminator terminate and send the control to different place what the
different place I didn't explain understand Mr. So I am talking about this M1 m complete
explanation of this chapter I'll explain with this example only. So I don't write again and again one time only I will
write. I will ask you to visualize. If you don't visualize it's your problem. H complete.
Write here one bullet point, arrow marker, whatever you want
like this.
completed this one.
Just write here.
This is conditional statement flow of execution. True.
Execute lines going out. False directly coming.
Okay. Now this is the flow imaginary diagram flow.
Uh next have written this diagram. Write down this diagram.
True false decision. If it is a true go inside the logic, execute and go out.
How many times executed? Here one time and here zero time.
Zero or one. If it is a false zero time. If it is a true one time.
First get the concept into your brain. Code will be easy. Next
under loop control flow statements
and tell me what is the diagram for loop control flow statement. False means it will go out.
Uh true means it will execute and going out a loop iterator
again coming again coming and then going out
1 or 10 times. Now zero or
write that circle. Thank you.
Okay. Done.
Here we can write false or true.
Next. Branching control flow statements.
Underline terminating. Okay. First break. What break will do? Break is used
for terminating loop.
Okay. Break is used for terminating all further iterations. Further
iterations means rounding rounding listen suppose I have prepared a loop
for executing 10 times but while executing 10 times in the
middle okay suppose I am taking the class for 2 hours that is decided
suddenly I got a phone call from my house can I continue no I'll terminate
the class in the middle and go now terminating is my bishop based on the conditioner. What condition? Phone call.
If phone call break that means now I have written the logic in the middle
somewhere I have written inside the loop I have written if some condition if condition is true break the loop go out
of the loop and continue the next lines of the code execution. Okay. Now currently just visualize visualize the
what I am trying to tell. Then when I'm writing code more clarity we will get then why you are giving all points at
one place sir each point you tell with example and go on but when revising revising this will be more easy for you
to read the notes okay all points will be at one place if I spread the points like a regular textbook then again you
have to rewrite the notes by your own that time takes lot of time so revision time with these notes will help you more
okay then next continue means break means break and go out. Continue
means continue. Then what the purpose of continue?
Uh listen break will break current iteration all
iterations all further iterations. Whereas continue will terminate the
current iteration continue with what? Next iteration.
Understand my point. Break will break next all further iteration. Suppose I
have how many iterations are there totally? 10 iterations. If I write a break in the third iteration break
executed remaining seven iterations executed or not executed not executed terminated and go out of the loop. If I
write continue in place of break what the currently running iteration three
three iteration third iteration in the middle terminated control will continue with the next
next iteration 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 after 10 iteration false it is go out clear my
point right that is the difference between break and continue break will terminate
all iterations whereas continue terminate only current iteration uh
write down Right arrow mark and write continue.
Continue is used for terminating only current iteration.
Write that only only
the current iteration and continuing the
execution of next iterations.
completed.
Uh finally return. Tell me what the purpose of return. Return is no way related to loop. It is related to
method. Main method has called M1 method. It is moving from main method
into M1. Control comes from main method to M1 method because of what? Calling
M1 method execution completed. It has to return the control back to main method. Now who will send the control back to
the main method? Calling method return key. Uh if you write return keyword end of the method, all statements executed
and terminated. If you write in the middle of the method logic there only terminated control return to calling
method. I want to terminate the loop only what I should use break. I want to
terminate only one iteration then continue. I want to terminate complete
method logic. Right? Right.
completed.
So this is the complete explanation on all statements. So conditional
statements are meant for executing a block of statements one or
zero or one time. Second loop statements are meant for executing
a block of statement zero or n number of times until condition value is false.
Next branching statements are three purposes. All three branch statements are meant
for terminating the execution. For terminating the loop execution, break
for terminating one iteration execution. Continue. For terminating the complete
method execution, return. Let's start working with conditional statements.
Okay, take it. Working with conditional statements.
then if if else. Hello. Is it if else? If
else if uh pronunciation is not if else if else
if better don't write this hyphen write comma if else if comma one more you can
write else better let me write like this maybe pronunciation easy for you
right click uh locate in disk
Lad. Okay.
First if then else if else ladder
this if we else if else ladder has a problem that's why switch as part of
switch we use case and default and then nested if nested switch inside if if you
write one more if it is called nest if you write switch inside the switch is called word nested switch. Totally six
concepts are there. Uh let us write first one completed
uh working with if uh tell me what is if. If is a
conditional control flow statement. You should not say no keyword. Okay. What is if? If is a conditional control flow
statement. What the use of if? If you want take a decision before executing a
statement or block of statements, you want to check the condition condition
true then if you want execute then I have to use what? If okay true only then
I want execute. Use if for example given value positive number execute given
value negative number execute given value even number execute. Okay, given
value is a uh like like say it is a four years of experience employee execute. So
like this different conditions if you want write and then take decision to execute we will use what if. Okay write
on that point and then we'll go for program working with if
first point right if is a conditional control flow statement.
If is a conditional control flow statement.
If is a conditional control flow statement.
Uh next point. When we need to execute
When we need to execute a statement
or a block of statement, a statement or a block of statements.
Uh
by checking one condition by checking one condition
based on the given value. based on the given value
by checking one condition based on the given value.
If condition is true. If condition is true
then we should use
then we must use if.
Okay. In simple terms, if you want to take a decision whether to execute or
not, if you want to take decision whether a statement or a block of statements execute or not based on the
given value, then we should use if. Then what the syntax of the if? Uh look, so
if bracket, what should I pass here?
Not true. Boolean condition. Okay, condition boolean. Okay, but one
more time I'm saying boolean condition means what is the value should be placed in the parenthesis
only true or false or an expression okay or boolean variable or an expression
generate what boolean value okay so if syntax syntax if you don't remember you
cannot write program if following by parenthesis in the parenthesis I have to write boolean condition open bracket
closed bracket statements this is one syntax. Second syntax if boolean
condition nobody open bracket closed bracket is not there. Uh then how many statements are comes under if condition
only one statement one statement rule this statement must not be variable declaration. Tell me variable
declaration should have a scope. Now uh within the method open bracket closed bracket or constructor open bracket
closed bracket or local block open bracket closed bracket. There should be a scope. If a scope is not there, body
is not there, you cannot declare variable. Can I declare variable outside of the class? No, only inside class,
open bracket, closed bracket or inside the method, open bracket, closed bracket. If you want to create a
variable compulsory, what should be there? Scope. Uh because you didn't write open bracket, closed bracket, you
should not write variable declaration. Understand? So tell me whenever you see if immediately what thought should come
here? If true I want execute if false I don't want execute that means compulsory
what should be there here boolean suppose tell me now if a open bracket closed bracket allowed or not allowed in
the program somewhere I have written if bracket a open bracket closed bracket allowed not allowed why a is what type
int or character okay int or int variable or character allowed not
allowed compiler th error incompatible int cannot be converted to boolean. Uh
suppose I writing like if a assignment operator 10 allowed or not allowed. Come
on. If a assignment operator 10 assignment operator returns the value
what type of value boolean type value in type value int. Why? Because the a
variable type is what? Int. If int. If a equal to equal to 10 double equal
to have written hello yes double equal to operator assignment operator comparison operator comparison operator
okay now a value taking five equal to equal to 10 false if false don't execute
a value is 10 10 equal to equal to 10 true execute are you follow a less than
10 I am writing allowed or not allowed allowed less than operator generating boolean value comfortable right so what
statement I have write in the if parenthes This is boolean literal, boolean variable, boolean expression,
boolean returning method, boolean value returning method. Any of the four you can write. Hope remember the operants.
What are the allowed operants? Right? Uh here also same story. If there is no body, you are allowed to write only one
statement. That statement must not be variable declaration. Write down syntax.
Uh shall we try one small program? Right. Example program.
Can I use method? Hope you can understand this statement. Static wide m1 int. It is a method. Okay. Which is
taking parameter int type value p. Uh tell me if I call y of 15 are all these
three methods are I mean all these three sentences are executed without any
checking because have you written any controlling here? No control will come to m first statement second statement
third statement executed and control go. What is the output of this program? Control one compile compile successfully
control two executed. We get output hi hello how are all three statements are
successfully executed I don't want execute hello always
I want to say hi always I want execute how are you always hello to execute or
not based on my friend hira hello how are you unofficial I want say hi hello
hello how are you official I won't say hi how are you okay something like that
means based on the given number I want to take decision to execute this statement or not. Then here at line
number five what concept I have to use. If observe now if a equal to 10 then
hello execute otherwise don't execute. Tell me what is the output?
Hi how are you? Hello will come will not come.
Hello will come will not come. What value passing 10? A value is what?
10. Huh? 10= 10. Huh?
Huh? 10= 10. Blind fellow
closely. Look.
Be careful. Be careful. uh this question compulsory will be there in the exam and
all the people say huh 10 equal to 10 true hello then output is what compile
time error then enter you say hello okay incompatible types int cannot be
converted to boolean this is assignment operator so compiler throw error because
the assignment operator generates the result based on the variable type here a is what type int if int compiler throw
error. Huh? Then tell me what the correct statement I have to write.
Okay, here let me write.
Okay, don't worry. Little torture will be there.
If I leave you easily then there is no
after going to home when you are started sleeping tell me right or wrong
compile or not compile even though you are sleeping my voice should come to your ears and asking okay tell me right
or wrong right or wrong tell me a equal equal to 10 I have written now compile.
Why? Because it is a what operator? Equality operator
generates boolean can I pass it is equal then result is what? True. Hello will
come. Understand? Uh write check write three programs you have to
write. A 10
10 15 two times you call two times write output here what is
output here what is the output
I told you carry different color pens no blue color green color pink color
no you have to Okay.
Flow of execution colors are very important now onwards. Tomorrow onwards you should have minimum three color pens. Blue,
black, blue both are looking same. Blue, red, green.
Okay. If your favorite pink red place pink by uh M1 of 10 will go to M1
method. uh a variable memory created with value 10
here 10 is passed then executed executed
executed coming back to the main method output is
hi hello how are you sorry in three lines will come now no problem right
side by side uh now blue
M1 of 15 control will go to M1 method again with what value 15 again a memory
created second time with value 15 and then again logic executed hi hello
how are you and coming back again we'll get output
hi Hi. Hello. How are you?
Then main method completed going up.
This is the flow of execution.
Hello students writing or watching again you will send a message sir. Not
upload sir.
Daily attending classes important. If you miss class GA
we are in very crucial stage don't miss classes.
Tell me in cricket first 10 hours important, last 10 hours important, middle import
middle important. If middle order batsman are not playing
well then that day match is closed. Plus middle of the course is very very
important. Always you will have begin interest last again course completing
middle. Okay. Change your mind. Middles are more important
uh how many partnerships are created in the middle that much more score you can
do uh now look I'm using if condition now if I use if condition what is the
flow if is used for executing zero or n number of times okay here we will write
in one program only both here a if a equal to 10 error a equal to equal to 10
no error Write cross mark here. Comment this
side. You write compile time error closely.
Look it is
assignment operator
generates a variable a type
int. Come on. Come on. Don't waste time. Come and write.
No compile time error because
operator is comparison equality operator
generates boolean
true or once.
H completed. Uh tell me the flow of execution.
Uh M1 of 10 control will go to M1 method
here with what value 10. Please write down arrow marks very important. Flow of execution arrow marks very important. A
variable memory created with value 10. Tell me is the statement under condition
or directly? Directly. Hi. Then control go here. It is under condition. So
checking if a a value is what? 10. 10 equal to equal to 10. True.
Write down there t true. True means going inside hello printed coming out
and then going next line and coming back. This is the flow of execution.
So output is hi hello
how are you?
Okay. Now let me compile it. Control 1. Compile successfully. Execute. output is
hi hi hello how are you this is the first attempt okay next m1 of 15 and tell me
the flow of execution of this program
uh again control is coming to m1 method with what tell you 15. Don't use your
eyes. Listen carefully. Even though it is a simple question, don't use your
eyes. Follow practice to your hand to draw the lines in the exam hall also.
It's a such a tricky questions will be there. Looking like a simple but you commit mistake. Use your eyes. Always
use your hand. Pen and paper draw diagrams compulsory. Then it is a direct
statement. Hi. Then it's coming to control. Uh this time what value substituted? 15. 15 equal equal to 10.
No false. What is giving to if false? If I give false is it executed? No. Then
going out. How are you? And coming out
then output is hi, how are you? Only hello will not
come. Don't underestimate the power of the
flow of execution.
If you are feeling lazy, who will write that arrow? I will not
write and every dog has a day.
Okay. Every dog has a day. Every day will come paka.
That day you will cry like anything.
Last class I have shared one message in the group. Did you see there is no better friend than knowledge
and no worst enemy than ignorance. Okay, if you are not writing this aromax lines
that you are friendipping with ignorance. Finally, who are the loser? you.
Okay. Shall I give one question now?
Paka will give wrong answer. Ready?
Right. What is the output from below program? What is the output from below program?
What is the output from the below program? Same program only.
Write write on write on don't read program. I
ask right now why you see seriously
right now right now don't see it seriously
first. First we have to go to else also.
I want you only tell output. Don't use your eyes.
Execute the flow. Execute the flow and tell answer. Don't use your eyes.
Output means compile time error, runtime error and output. Never only think about
output. What is output from below? Program means either compile time error or runtime error or output. You have to
tell correct answer. What is the right option?
Run run run run program run.
First we will understand concept based programs then daily we will develop logical programs separately. Okay. So
find given number pand or not even number or not those are all logical programs. Once you understand control
flow statements everything concept wise execution flow then logical programs will start. Write
you don't know error. Why error?
So what the problem with assignment of sorry
one equals to one? Where did I use one?
H
why not compile what the problem with assignment?
uh then then
store value and then what it is doing what the functionality of assignment operator
it stores the given value in the variable and replace that expression with the same value. Huh?
Previous example you got error because of assignment operator because of
because of assignment operator is the error
read the comment what the comment I written there you didn't write fully
Hi compile time.
How you will get output and compile time error baba?
Huh? Anyone in the class? What is the output?
Okay, tell me how many people compile time error. Raise your hands. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. Okay. Uh, how many people
runtime error? Runtime error. What is the runtime error?
Compile time. Okay. What is the runtime error? Only printing is there. There is no
runtime error. Ah, now output. Hi.
Hello. How are you? Ah, true. Oh, okay. A value true. Uh,
second option. Hi. Hi, how are you? Hello will not come.
Okay, listen again and again I'm telling you written
Java written test exam is very simple. There is no complex. There is no
difficulty question but tricky questions will be there. Small twist will be there to reveal that twist. You should not use
your brain. Understand? If you use your brain kam
you will give wrong answer. Don't use your brain. Don't use your eyes. Use only pen hand pen paper. Write
the flow. Then you decide right or wrong. Don't try to use your brain.
Again and again I'm telling you. uh now I don't know if I got this question in my exam how I will I answer I'll show
you okay uh concept I'll apply what the concept what is this method parameter
can be boolean okay normal statement if if condition what should be here boolean
boolean expression must be there okay what is this expression assignment what
is the functionality of assignment operator Store and only store. Store and return
value of what type? Of variable type. Of variable type. What is the variable? A
boolean. What is the value coming here? Boolean. So tell me if boolean where is
compile time error. Oh, previous program compile time error.
Huh? Previous program compile error because not assignment operator. Previous
program compile error because of a type is int.
My dear sleeping fellow
understand previous error is not because of assignment because of a tell me what the
functionality this one m1 of control comes to a what the value 10 a memory
created with what value 10 uh now high printed then if what is the meaning
store 10 in Okay. Uh 10 replace with 10
and then read 10 and substitute. That means this entire statement is replaced
as what? If 10 and tell me if 10 allowed or not
allowed? Not allowed.
Understand? Uh same point you apply here. Don't use your brain. What is this now? M1 of
true. M1 method a parameter created with what value?
True. Uh then control is coming to high. If
what is storing true you are storing in a control comes here existing value true
replace with true returns that value and substituted here. That mean the
statement become what? If true. Now tell me where is the problem?
understand her still doubt hello I am not explaining ifra swami
assignment operator already operator chapter completed that's why I told you next chapters if you want to understand
operators are important operator assignment operator is meant for what store the value and read the same value
and substitute this a equal to true replace with what if true uh now tell me
if true then If true means where control will go. Control will go into if what is printed?
Hello. Then going out what is the output? How are you? What is the a value? True.
What is the output? Hi. Hello. How are you? True. Clear? Understood?
Any doubt? Everyone understand?
previous program you got error because of assignment operator because of generator result is in enter
generator result is int. If I use assignment operator with the boolean variable error no error no error. Okay,
look at here. Explain me the second point. If I pass false, what is the output now? So, confirm there is no
error. Now, we'll get output and tell me what is the output we'll get? Hi.
Hello. Will come will not come. Will not come up. Why?
Because I'm passing false. Uh because I'm passing false. That's why
no error hello will not come. array I have not used here
equality operator I have used word assignment then what happened true
stored in a what the a value false replace with true and reading and
substituting then it is converted as if true if true means condition execute if
true what is the output hello even you pass true or you pass false always we'll
get the same result what the a value you will get here false or true
false already a variable value you change no so what you'll get true you
will get not false true false already replaced so workout work out at home uh
tell me what happened again control will go to this method
uh a variable memory created with what value
false Then I printed if a equal to true. What
happened here
in a variable false replace with true
and the true value is reading and substituted. This expression is now
replaced as what?
If true. If true means execute hello go out and execute this.
Execute this. What the a value? A val
tricky point. You have to practice one time only. Okay. First time you have seen this kind of difficulty point. One
time if you practice then it is easy. Cycle riding is difficult. How many days?
until you accept the balance that balance purpose you are have to commit. Okay, I have to go and understand it.
Okay. What if you give the numeric value to M1 fellow sleeping fellow mindless
fellow already explained here a= 10ish
deep sleeping right on the floor
then if you're not sleeping what questions you're asking first questions Write
the flow with a true with false. Both the flows you write
uh removing again. Let us try uh first what you are passing m of true.
Come on write along with me.
What is a value to the boolean data type? If you pass
numeric value, compiler asked come to his home.
Okay. Now like pas come to my room compiler will ask you come to my room.
Okay. To the boolean variable. How can I pass number?
Wonderful. data chapter
C language then why you come to Java language
why you are bringing C language to Java by
uh then if what happened here true
storing here
and return the true to expression
and the statement is converted as
if true
then go inside. coming out. How are you? A value coming
from here. result is
assignment operator meant for storing and then substituting the same value
there. assignment operator store value and substitute the same value.
Uh side you write
in a previous program
a equal for the statement
for the condition a = 10
we got error. It is not. It is
because assignment operator
returns int value 10.
It becomes if 10.
It becomes if 10. So error
here. If a equal to true,
no compile time error because here
assignment operator returns boolean value true
because variable type is boolean.
Read assignment operator notes again.
Assignment
operator result type is
the variable type used in this assignment.
Same flow. Same flow. Write yourself and if you have doubt ask I'll explain.
Follow the same flow.
Explain these points to your friends in the hostel so that your knowledge will be improved.
Ask these tricky questions. When you are asking tricky questions, you will get a interest whenever your friends are
surprising and saying that wow. Okay. Uh the Instagram real was there
now. Wow. Huh. So elegant. So is that
okay? So like that your friends also started giving ws to you then you will get
interest of learning more points to surprise them again and again. If you are feeling java this points okay then
you will not get job. So if you know all these point then only you'll pass your interview. Interview passing decided
based on your analyzation skills. Understood? Still confusion now really
previous one if int error if boolean no error. So if syntax if parenthesis must
be allowed value only boolean. So boolean literal boolean variable boolean expression only you have to write. If
you write int type compiler throw error in C language allowed in Java not
allowed. That's all for today class. Thank you. See you all tomorrow for learning next points.
If you have doubt, please ask. I'll explain again if you want.
All students wait for a few minutes. Let complete offline students doubts.
This concept
question.
Simple. Okay.
less than 20. Is it true?
Condition express.
True.
So,
how do I know? How do I know man?
What the meaning of this line? What will come here in ch? What is the
ch 1 2 3 is there? Did you assign CH 1 to 23 semicolon
here? Is it double quotes 1 to 23 or single quotes 1 2 3? Double code is our character stringer.
Huh? Then what will come
500?
Why you don't know? Ask your friends who are there next.
Ask your friends and come back.
It is true to the value type is integer type
operator incompatible type by incompatible
value when we use left then it becomes
256 but by range is it is decrease that value to by range
minus 128 to 127 by cast operator purpose is what if the value is within
the range It stores if not in the range it will decrease the value 256 to zero
not zero decrease to 0 - 128 to 127 how it will decrease there is a formula okay
mean output is showing zero that's why I'm telling there is a formula result minus total value what
the result 256 minus total value total total range value minus 128 to 126 7
total at 256. 256 - 256. Okay. Huh?
Same formula is same question
This one is one statement. This is one statement.
How can I say that is one statement? This is another statement. I think so. Don't think so.
That's what I'm saying every day. Don't use your brain. You can write this individual also.
No, this is separate. This is separate. Why you combining them?
giving the why it is giving output how it is giving out none of your business apply syntax
don't understand that's what I'm saying apply syntax
expression is false same point apply
and false where started where it End question question mark huh where is the colon
whose colon is that how can you say what again you are asking me again that is
what I don't understand don't say that first you remove from your brain not understand
if you remove this then it will be easy written bracket bracket bracket now
close bracket whose close bracket is
If you close whose closed bracket is this immediate one closed bracket if you
write one more closed bracket whose closed bracket it is this one closed bracket reverse order will be closed. Uh
if you don't write close bracket one more what happened compile time same story this is question
mark again question mark again question mark then colon whose colon is this
uh one more colon this one more colon
understood that's what yesterday I told you already this clues go and check next
to understand X I didn't explain I explain next
I understand operators for positive numbers positive numbers
negative numbers very difficult leave it we want join data structures folks next
I didn't explain No, you didn't explain then I I don't discuss
time for it is instance also I thought that that's what I'm telling that is related to objects lot of discussion there later
we'll discuss yeah leave it
type in system and find output are you there type it in system and find what is the
output. Okay, type in the system. Type that line in the system and let me know.
Check this. Are you there?
unmute. Uh hello sir, I am audible. Uh uh yes sir. So my doubt is like uh
when we passing false value like in that boolean false then if a equal to then
what we'll store in a what is stored in a
so previously true will be there. So um while passing false then
firstly that's it from the set come again. So uh while previously false
is stored in a while passing. So previously true is stored in a uh while
passing false then uh how it will be like a equal to stopping again how it
will be continue flow. Why you are putting the break speed breaker there?
Okay. Okay sir. Follow the flow. If false equal to true. Oh, what is the
what is this? Assignment operator. And then why you are substituting here
false? So we passing false
value in that variable existing value replaced.
Okay. And substitute the same value. Okay. Uh so uh there is no value if
you're passing any there is no value if you're passing any true or false in that
boolean a right. Uh okay sir. So if you're passing false
then it will come true and passing true then it will comes true right? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you sir.
Saty, are you there?
Uh, what is your question? String three dots are allowed from Java 5 version. Okay.
Square bracket or three dots both are allowed. No compile time.
Okay, thank you.

