ript


Yeah, from which version onward string accepts I mean switch accepts string as argument seven version which version
Java minimum we will use in the company
five in a company now minimum which version you are using
eight Java 8 or 11 or 17 or 21 okay now
so 8 is the minimum version that means in your regular project can you use uh
switch with the string? Yes, you have to practice it. Okay.
And now last class we have understood this very important when you're writing case one you give the indentation you
are not giving indentation if you write directly like this it's not readable right give the indentation properly
inside case next can I write open bracket closed bracket here
yes sir what is the difference in writing open bracket closed bracket we will discuss
in the coming classes okay uh now case one you can write in open bracket closed
bracket or without bracket also you can write if I don't write break here what is the problem
any compile time error no any runtime error no but what is the problem
from the case matched onwards down cases also executed suppose if I give one here
today is a Sunday Monday also coming why because break is not there the past
value is one. Case one matched then it is executed. Did you write any break
here? No. Because there is no break it will go to down. Case to system.out
print. Today is Monday break. Understood? So that's why break is
important. If there is no break next state, next cases are also executed. And
now same program I want to rewrite
with a string. Uh what what the question? Develop a program to read week day name
from keyboard. Print the day name number
based on the day number based on the given name. If wrong name is passed,
print wrong name.
Print wrong name. Okay. If I enter Monday, today is
okay. Monday is day one or day two. Now, day two
if I give okay, this is Sunday. Let's say Sunday.
Sunday is day one. If I give Monday, Monday is day two.
like this. If I pass wrong name something called ABC.
Okay. Then we have to display message. What? Wrong. Enough. Wrong name or wrong
day name.
Then what I have to write? Uh enter day name
as Monday, Sunday, Monday
like this. Uh next I have to read it as next
because there no space. Now next is sufficient. Then I have to take string
day name and I have to pass argument here what day name. Uh one place what I
should write? I should write literal constant. See how to write double quotes
Sunday and two place double quotes Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday started and default case. test. Uh what
messages I have to print here?
Sunday is day one. Monday is day two.
Have you written same
Yes. One.
Control
1 compile. Control 2 entered. Okay. I have to change the class name.
Execute. Now enter day name. Sunday. Monday. Okay. I want to enter Sunday.
Sunday is day one.
Uh now I'm giving day to Monday. Okay.
Next. Uh okay.
I'm giving HK. Uh okay. HK. All not we'll get default case. Wrong day name.
Now okay sorry and now I'm giving here
Sunday hello or not Java identifier is case
sensitive capital s is not equal to small s
wrong day name. So what should I do now? I should force the user enter only capital s
any s can pass I should accept it for that here you reading the name in the
user given format you want to compare with what capital name so you have to
convert the characters to upper case dot to upper case
there is a predefined method tell me next method returns the data as what string in a string class this is the
method this method returns a string object dot object dot when you write in
example class E1 dot I1 compiler searching for I1 variable in example
class similarly this is what sen next returns what string object string object
dot something you write compiler searching for that member in the string class inside string class we have a
method called two uppercase for converting all the characters available in the string object to upper case and
store in this variable. What you are passing lower case capital upper cases
and we are passing here after conversion
working
capital yes also work understand so what
the what you missed in last class maybe two upper case method may not be called just No call some students already send
message to me. I already answered them. Now people remaining people not got an
idea. Please add dot to upper case.
We are calling for converting
characters to upper case
because the switch
label switch case label
characters are in uppercase.
Take that arrow mark. Y day name. Day name is compared with sun.
So in upper case
okay from Monday onwards I'm starting object oriented programming control flow statements. Okay. Today how
much completed that much we will learn remaining control flow statements wherever I need there I will use
understand my point separately we are not going to practice this chapter so it will if I practice separately like in C
language then only control flow statement chapter operator chapter will take more one month okay now when I can
learn object oriented programming when we will learn uh Java library right so
control flow statement chapter we leave the pages gap three four pages gap we will leave wherever I need suppose uh
let's say I'm taking variable chapter in variable chapter I need break concept
then I will come back here break concept notes I will dictate I will use in the chapter so that object oriented
programming plus control flow statements together we are trying to learn further so that you will not forget when I'm
using it okay uh so minimum knowledge is required and further knowledge you you
will use as part of object orient oriented programs in object- oriented programming also we need data types
variables operators control flow statements sir what about pattern number program printing to printing pattern
this way that way that way that that you don't teach we'll teach I will teach separately okay wherever I need there I
will teach uh next matrix program sir I will teach a matrix is nothing but array
chapter okay now two dimensional array is a matrix when I'm dealing with array there I need matrix there I will teach
matrix based programs Okay. So wherever I need further control flow statements knowledge there we will use. Let's not
spend more time on control flow statements because useless in the interview people will ask the questions
more on objectoriented because you are object- oriented programmer. No you are not a C programmer you are not a Python
programmer. C and Python more time you have to spend on control flow statements. Sorry more time on logical
programming less time on object oriented. But Java is more time you have
to spend on object oriented. While object oriented logical program also will come along with. Okay. Now by end
of core Java our dis our batch is completed. We will see that all control
flow statements related all logical programs algorithms everything searching sorting algorithms everything is
covered. That's what that is the way I will teach. Okay. you know like uh uh
you know C language you cannot learn everything in a one place because C is only for learning logical programming
but Java has extra two points are there object oriented programming and Java library that's why Monday onwards we are
starting object oriented programming okay now Monday holy sir I will not come that's your problem not my problem
understand my point sir holy celebrations are more important for me than what do you call just now morning
7:00 students send message Monday holy how can you take a class
okay I didn't respond them generally I don't respond to the people who are asking for holidays okay I want
a student who will give their free time to Java so I told you many times in the
demo class also choose Java only when you are dedicating your life to Java
until you get job holidays Sundays uh festival holidays or band holidays Okay.
All these are not part of your life. Now only Java. If I give holiday that day
you should get angry. When I send a message last week, today holiday, last Monday I guess this Monday
only, right? Uh you should get angry. You should send a message to fellow why you are already giving. Okay. So when
I'm giving already you should get angry baba. More time you have to spend in the class. As much more time you spend with
the faculty that much more knowledge you will get. Okay. No holiday for holy. I told you only three festivals will give
holiday. Five festivals. Sranti. Uh then next Dasara Deepawali Christmas
Ramjan and noadhi nothing
holy remaining all 99.99% holidays will not be there. If
management announce holiday I don't think so 100% will not be there. If at
all management change the decision let me give holiday enjoy okay now but you don't ask holiday
that's what I'm saying you don't ask holiday you don't have that right because already you sacrificed your 3
months of time for Java only holiday should not be there now come completed a
story write a comment uh now I want you write one more program this is now
become uh very important nowadays everyone asking
this question. Write a program.
Write a program to read a character from the keyboard.
Write a program to read a character from the keyboard.
Check
whether it is wo or consonant. Check whether it is wo or consonant.
Wel
pronunciation you write yourself. I my pronunciation is my wish. Okay.
Vo W.
Okay. Or consonant, right? O consonant.
Yeah. Print proper message
and print proper message. What the message? Character is well character is
consonant. M right hello
sir if it is a digit sir don't worry about digit and all only character you are entering digit and all
we will see later in string chapter
only concentrate on o and con consonants and
how can I say letter is a o a e i o u and the given character you
have to compare with a Ee I that's it right
this Sunday I need to take class for your seniors no class for you maybe next week we will play
your seniors uh went to spring boot class. So one class pending for them
completed.
Uh what you have written? Tell me. Enter letter.
Uh how to read letter SN dot next in dot
carrot of zero and store it inside character ch
Oh or letter. Uh tell me what should I use? Switcher
or if uh below what do you write? If
letter huh
equals to assignment operator comparison operator comparison letter equal to equal to single code A. Uh
R letter equals to equals to single code
E. Uh R letter equals to equals to single
code. I R letter equals to equals to
single code. Wo. You can take it in the next line also.
Or letter equals to equals to U.
Uh tell me now it may be in entered maybe upper case or maybe lower case but
you are comparing with lower case and then what I have to write here dot to
lower case that should not forget Java is case sensitive. The coming letters may be
upper case or maybe lower case. Very important. If you convert to the lower
case, I have to print this character on the console. Now observe I have to print
if you entered a what should it display? Letter A is a if you pass a small A, I
should print letter A is O. Then here the problem is if you convert the given
data to lower case, I cannot print in the given case. Now that's why you
should have separately. What you should write string
uh
letter equal to sen dot next then character ch equal to sn dot or you can
say lc letter
what the meaning of lc letter uh lowerase letter equal to yes cn dot No
in place of this what you write letter dot two lower case then here what I should use LC letter.
Okay now uh then if yes what should I print? System dot out dot print len of
double quotes letter in the given case plus
is a uh else
that's it. This is a simple program
control 1 compiled control 2 executed I'm giving a a is
capital a also look at there capital a capital a coming or not uh Next
some P P is constant. Capital P also constant. Huh? If I give
digits of 10, what you'll get? 10 is a consonant.
Okay.
is ana is a okay uh is a consonant.
Now currently if I give the number or if
I give uh what do you call if I give a special character we are not
handling. So that case we are not handling we are handling only consonant and then letter only we are
handling remaining how to handle in string handling chapter I will teach you this is the code everyone will write
okay but how many comparisons are happening
if I give you how many comparisons will happen five comparisons is it a lengy
process so nowadays people are asking the AM
question. Develop a program to read a letter from the keyboard. Print whether
it is a vo or consonant by using switcher.
Rewrite above program written by using switcher.
Really? Why you return using switching?
and currently switch topic that's why switcher set it how you have written by
using switch let me see okay in place of if what I should write
switch okay and I have to take here which
letter or LC letter okay LC letter how many cases you have
written including default totally six cases you are
written right why you need six cases
did I ask you find is it a find is it o
e did I say like that then why you written five cases
uh look this is the way you order it case one single quote Okay.
Case two. Case three
have written same. No, you have repeated same sop
statement. No. Five times.
You want execute same logic for all five cases. Then why you are writing five times?
Don't use a break. It will go down. Uh if you give a uh case a matched then
down down this is executed. Uh now case E is matched then it will go down and
executed this uh case I matched then it will execute case O case U. So no need
to write five times don't write break for all five cases one SOP ln and
default other sopn. Okay. So this is the program now people are expecting you to write to see whether you are good at
switch the flow of execution or not.
Uh control 1 compile control 2 uh now a
uh what the mistake I did. Uh after this I should write break
otherwise it will get concerned also.
A is an O. Uh now P is a constant.
uh I is over. Clear my point. Write on this
same program first with if operators with if condition and with the switch
I'm done.
completed now people got confidence on how to work with the switcher okay on if
else switch there are rules are there that rules document I'll upload you have
to write that notes yourself okay Leave one complete page.
Two sides. One page. One paper. One paper.
One pager. Two sides. One side if rules another
side switch rules. If you want more space, you leave more
space. It's up to you.
Okay, look at here. This is the basic syntax of if. If boolean argument, if
boolean argument, if boolean argument, what is there? Semicolon. Remember I covered this. Uh, next. If boolean
argument, semicolon body. Tell me is this body comes under if boolean? No,
because semicolon already placed. Uh then next if boolean argument open bracket closed bracket else if boolean
argument no open bracket if boolean argument body without body if boolean
argument semicolon no statement in the middle else semicolon allowed then next
if boolean argument semicolon semicolon allowed
we'll get compile time error to else because second semicolon uh this first
sem Semicolon is under if second semicolon become extra statement then else association to if is gone. You have
to type all these things in place of dash dash what you write s and write s and if s in else
understand uh like this these are the basic syntax then if else if ladder uh if condition
one logic condition two logic condition three logic condition four logic finally
else then rules only only one argument is allowed if true false not allowed if
true If false if I want two conditions to write then you have to concat them by using any of these bitwise logical
operators or bitwise operators. Second point uh now the allowed argument type
strictly boolean type. It can be either literal variable expression method call. If true if false if one if zero not
allowed B1 B2 allowed I1 I2 not allowed. A equal to equal to 20. A not equal to
20. Less than 20. Greater than five and less than 20 allowed. A variable A equal
to 10 not equal to 10 + 20 and 20 not allowed. Boolean variable equal to
allowed not equal to allowed. Plus compiler throw error. Single end allowed. Single end also can be used as
a logical operator. Bitwise logical. Next M1 method call. M2 method call. Return type is boolean. Boolean return
type int. Written type care can I use M3 M4 method? No. Okay. Rule number three.
If you place only one statement then if body is optional. If true we can write.
If true also we can write without body. If you place multiple statements compiler will throw error.
Okay. If a some value you can choose yourself. I'm giving dash means what? You can place something. If a a value
says suppose five less than five true s and high hello. If I give here six, six
less than five, sorry, you have given here three, three less than five, true. Hi, hello. If I give here a value is
seven, you given inputs also seven. Uh, seven means what is the output? Seven less than five, false. Hi will come. No,
hello. Yes. Hello. Hello. Not in the scope. Open bracket not there only one
statement will come. Okay. Uh then tell me if I use body
either both the high will come or high hello will not come. Next we can place empty if without any statement under it.
We can place empty if body without placing any statement. Empty if I can
place no problem. Empty if false we can place. Empty if a less than five we can
place. After if without using body we can place one statement with multiple empty lines. Compiler ignores all these
empty lines. After the first statement after empty lines will be considered under uh look at there wide m1 in a if a
less than five I have written. Now I have written so many empty lines
and then logic I have written. Tell me are these empty lines considered as a statements under ifa? No. Then this
first statement consider under if and hello under if are not hello it's not
comes under hello very important point this is okay like this I gave so many cases so many rules and a clear
explanation I gave here either you write or print that's up to you
what was that Brahman
I guessh movie and that villain has given this much big plate of biryani.
Okay. And will say one thing a person can eat this much biryani then
say okay. So the dialogue is wonderful dialogue. uh
so tell me if I explain all these points in the class in previous batches I used
to explain that's why my course was taken for 6 months minimum
and sometimes if students are more interested I used to teach 8 months also
one batch as a full-fledged students came all are every day practicing like
anything and forcing me to teach everything that batch went for eight months
students not question management not questioned that that much freedom I have in nar
management never asked me how many months you will take to complete the batch that much freedom I have but
nowadays students are not interested okay that's why this is expert level knowledge what I have explained you is
uh and this is SJP level okay in complete 100% no problem I am sharing
the knowledge to you interested people practice and if you find any difficulty anywhere ask me I'll explain
If you not practice, leave it. Not interested to practice, leave it. There is nothing. See 800 questions came. 800
lines. 8 under lines. Where I can write in the notes. Sorry, I will share it.
Print copy or whatever you want. You do it. Next. Switch rules. It contain both
if else if else if else ladder. Okay. All are there. Switch rules.
uh switch argument cannot be a variable declaration but variable assignment is
allowed. Int int i equal to 10 not allowed outside
you create inside assign allowed as a switch argument. The allowed things are
either lit or variable assignment or variable name variable expression.
variable expression and a + 10 variable expression method call literal final
variable constant expression anything you can place as a switch argument uh
here one allowed a allowed c is what final variable final variable allowed a
is what normal variable 1 a c a + b this
is a constant expression or variable expression a plus b
A is a variable. B is a variable. So what is this variable expression? 5 + 6
constant. C + 7. C is what? Constant. Seven is what?
Constant. Constant expression. M1 nonwide method call. Okay. All are
allowed. Next. Switch argument type must be switch argument type must be int or
it lesser type wrapper classes enum string. If you pass long float double
boolean or long float double boolean or array or our own class object compiler
through error examples I gave here.
Uh like if we cannot create switch without body if true allowed switch off not allowed.
Like if we cannot we can create empty switch no problem. Case and default are
optional. Inside switch without using case or default we cannot place any statement directly. If you place
directly compiler asking come nearer why you are writing switchment for choosing option which option the statement comes
under. We must place statements only under case or default. Switch a case one
allowed default allowed. We can place only default without case allowed.
Everyone feeling that uh case must be there after case only default allowed. No only default also you can place. If
you place only default any value pass here it is executed. We can place case and default in any
order. There is no rule that first you should place case and then default. Even
we can place default in the middle of cases. There is no rule that default must be last case but recommended is
last. Uh now I have given different cases case one case two default default
case 1 case 2 case 2 default case one okay uh here a equal to 5 so only
default is executed I given what 1 two then five if you pass only default executed uh here a equal to 5 where here
here in this case number two
in case number two if a is five uh tell me which is executed default Case one,
case two executed not executed depending on the break. Uh if you place a break
here then case one case two are not executed. If there is no break default
case one case two are also executed. That point explanation I gave here. Uh next here if I give five what is
executed? Default. Case one executed or not executed depending on breaker depending on break. Same point. So if
you practice all these rules then you will get full confidence paka any question asking from the switch you can
write in the exam how many years you will take to practice
it's up to you how many cases are there 10 9 10 11 12
13 14 15.
16 17 18
19 20
21 Hey, what is this?
What is this? Is this one? This one same? Yes, sir.
0 1 1 1 0 14
14 This is 12.
It's a octal. It is a octal number. Any number starts
with zero is octal. 0 14 1 into 8 power 1 4 into 8 power 0 8^ 0 1 4 into 1 1 4 1
1 into 8 8 8 + 4 12 case 12 case 12 both are duplicate cases
okay 20 21 uh 22
23 24
25 26 Okay. Nested switch also I explained
here a switch place inside a switch is called what? Nest switch.
Okay. Now so totally 26 points are there under switch. So enjoy all these points.
The uh yield is latest version. We will discuss later.
If you want more salary, you must have more knowledge.
Simple. When you say I want resign, company CEO should come and ask you.
company CEO should come and request you don't resign. What do you want? Tell me I will provide.
Hey understand again I'm telling you if you say you are
resigning company CEO should ask you should ask you CEO not your manager
your impression in the company should be up to that level
company should not wait when you will leave the office when you will resign company should request you to stay back
with the office what you want to tell me I'm ready to provide that way should be there. If you want to be like that, you
should have this much knowledge.
My entire knowledge I'm sharing utilize it.
Write if inside if that is a nested if what you want explanation Mahesh
you have one condition okay so for example now I am asking you take a a character from the keyboard uh
you read one read that letter that sorry you read the character character maybe
letter maybe dig it maybe special character Then you have to write one condition for
letter. Uh now you found okay you found the character is a letter inside the
letter I want to find it is a o or consonant then inside a letter condition
you should write one more condition that is a
okay now can you try yourself
right next loops
Right. A loop is a one of the control flow statements.
A loop is a one of the control flow statements.
A loop is a one of the control flow statements. Full stop. It is used for
It is used for executing
a block of statements.
A block of statements zero or
zero or one or
n number of times zero or one or n number of times.
I gave some surprise point. Everywhere you will read
loops are used for executing zero or n number of times. But I give zero or one
or n number of times and zero or n time one or n time.
Understand? Underline zero or one.
Underline one more underline down one or n times.
There are two things are there. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Extend. Okay. 0 n on top you write round
zero n circle circle kind.
Okay. Uh there is a one loop that will allow you to execute zero or n times.
There is another loop that allows us to execute one or end times and a
compulsory one time I want to execute. Then following by based on condition again and again I want to execute. Okay.
Uh observe Java supports. Okay. What statements end times until condition is
on continuation until condition is false. I am comfortable with the word until condition is false. False. Other
faculties may say until true.
How long it will be keep on running until condition is false. If it is a
false come out true means no need to tell again it is going inside from that sense and my sense is what? when it come
out the from that sense I am saying false all faculties are telling in the sense what when it go inside inside it
will go again and again until true so here true is also correct false is also correct from my point of view false is
correct until false I didn't write if condition I didn't write if condition is
false I'm not saying until condition is false okay now right now then next
Java supports Java supports
how many loops here some confusion there again look at
here people say five four loops while loop dowh loop for loop for each loop
for each loop is not a separate loop that is one syntax of the for so that's why I don't want to take for each loop
as a separate loop I'm including for and for each for colon
colon I mean sorry for semicolon semicolon if you write that is a for loop if I write for colon then it is a
for each loop keyword wise how many keywords are there three or else let us
do one thing first write a keyword wise and then concept wise so that no confusion okay uh Java supports three
keywords Java supports three keywords as loop
statements ments. Java supports three keywords as loop statements.
Number one, while number two dot
dot dot while number three for.
Okay. Uh next point. In total we have In total we have
four types of loops. In total we have four types of loops.
Number one while loop.
Number two do while loop. two three dots while do
while loop. Number three, for loop.
Number four, per hyphen each loop or
R or R or R enhanced for loop or enhanced
for loop. Okay. Actually it is called enhancer for loop but people are calling it as for
each loop. Okay. Uh let's start first while loop
take while loop.
Uh tell me while loop is used for write up. Y loop is used for
executing a block of statements.
Executing a block of statements. Zero or
wait. Executing a block of statements repeatedly.
Strike of zero. Executing block of statements repeatedly.
Either zero or
one or n*s n times depending on condition.
depending on condition.
Next syntax,
right? Look at here like if we can write with body multiple statements without
body one statement and this one statement cannot be
variable declaration. Okay. Write syntax
only write these two boxes. Don't write anything extra.
Only write these two boxes. Don't write anything extra.
Huh? What is this boolean condition means? What is allowed here? True, false,
boolean variable, boolean expression, boolean nonvoid method call. Okay. Now,
no need to repeat every time. Same point. Now tell then I can generate the boolean value. Should I write here true
directly? No. If I write true directly it's keep on running. It never come out.
If I write while false it never go inside. And then I should generate this
boolean value. Now to generate boolean value I should write here either expression or I should write what?
Method call. Are you following my point? I should write either expression or I should write method call here. Okay. Uh
that means just with this syntax can I complete my while loop? No. I need some
extra concept here for generating the boolean condition. So that may be a variable or maybe a method call. Okay.
Write down note for generating boolean result.
for generating boolean value.
In while condition,
in while condition we must use
either variable
or an expression
or a method All
for generating true or false dynamically
for generating true or false dynamically
true or false dynamically. Full stop dynamic and runtime. Okay. uh now let us
try to take a small example for you to understand both IT nonIT see I'm not targeting big big examples because nonIT
people cannot understand if you take big examples write a program
write a program
to print to Print
your name to print your name five times.
To print your name five times by using while loop
to print your name five times by using Y. And there are two ways to write system.out print hurry 1 2 3 4 5. Okay.
This is a static nature. Now this is static nature code.
Okay. Every time this is printing only five times. I want dynamic nature code.
Dynamic nature code means look at here from here to here are you executing
different logic or same logic? Same logic. Uh then now what you write? I wanted to write this statement only one
time. Execute repeatedly. If you want to execute any statement repeatedly what I
required while okay while what I should pass here boolean condition what the boolean condition five times. Five times
is the condition. How can I generate five times condition? I have to take a variable int a start with what?
Uh five times and start with what one semicolon and how long I have to execute
five times means one then stop first one one stop to two stop to three
stop to four. Are you following my point? uh step to five then stop to six.
Six means continue come out come out. Uh so what I write here I wanted to verify
whether a value reached how many times you want execute five I must verify is
this a value reached to this five or not and I reach what uh if a value is five
or lesser than five I want execute this one that means what I should use here
lesser than or equals to a less than or equals to 5 open bracket closed bracket
Now tell me how many times it is executed.
How many times executed? One time. Huh?
Come on. Come on. Don't use your eyes. Use your brain calculation. Work like a compiler. What compiler do? Compiler see
the program over and guess the output. Line by line it is executed or not. Uh
execute line by line. First line India equal to 1. Uh
one. Then next line while a what a value one. One less than or equals to 5. True.
Then go inside while hurry printed. Then it is going out. What is it? A if
condition looper. If it is a if. If means what?
True. Execute. Go out. Loop means what? execute true execute and go out a
iterator. That's what is called loop or iterative statement. From this close bracket again
it will come back to the condition and verify the condition. What the a value one less than or equals to
five true then hurry printed again end of the end of the while end of the while
and is going out a loop iterated loop iterated again coming back here. What the a value? One. One less than or
equals to five. Huh? Lifelong. It is running.
It never come out.
Control one. Compile. Control.
It never stopped. It become infinite loom. Let's keep on
running running running running running running. So it is called what? Infinite loop. Uh so tell me now what is the
problem with while loop developer? There is a chance I may forgot incrementing
the variables. Okay. So that's why generally while loop we don't use in the
projects. Okay. A++ I should write I should
increase by two values at a time or one time. One time a + one step only. Okay.
One step only. If you want to come to the first floor, start from ground floor now and step by step. Step by step. Step
by step. A++. And tell me with the A++ printed how many times? Exactly five
times. Control one control. Okay. These five one line gap.
Okay. Now next how many times? printed five times printed program terminated. Explain the flow. Uh first a variable
value is one. Uh then next while a value what one less
than or equals to 5. True. Go inside. What is printed? Hurry.
Then a ++ a+ means read a increase a
two. And that return value are using no my target only increasing. Then go to
end of the while. End of the while means go out a no. Loop means iterate.
Iterate. And check the condition again. What the a value now? Two.
Two less than or equals to 3. Yes. What is a tra? What is written? True. True
means go inside again. Printed what? Hurry. Unid understand. And then a++. A++ means
increase value by one. No need to use. Then end of the while. End of the while
means again iterate. Come back to the condition. Like this. How many times executed? Five
times. Uh now 3 4 5. Uh hurry. 3 4 5. Hurry
hurry hurry. Five times printed. Now sixth fifth iteration 5 less than or
equals to 5 true hurry printed fifth time a ++ what the a+ six and then y
loop iterated sixth time what the value six less than or equals to 5 false going
out after loop if I print a what the value
five or six will come understand flow of execution write
Uh 1 minute 1 minute 1 minute
right full program static nature dynamic nature Look.
Well done.
uh execution flow have been written.
So execution flow please write four
5 also six in the case of six it will go out.
If you already know execution flow no need to write
When I = 1, I
a = 1, a = 2, a = 3, a = 4,
5 by print.
completed everyone. Proceed next point. Uh tell me
what is the problem with while loop? There are two problems with while loop.
Problem number one. While loop logic is executed only after condition checked.
If condition is true then only logic executed. Condition is false the logic
is not executed. That is a problem number one. Problem number two
variable declaration is somewhere condition is somewhere incrementing or
decrementing is some other place. All three are spread across three places. Suppose all your class students are
spread spread across different rooms. Can I control you what you are doing? Then what should I do?
I want to control you. I want to make you study properly. Then what should I do? I should make all the people stay in
single room. Tell me in intermediate hostels why everyone pass 100%
guarantee. Why in our Amir host people are not studying failing? Because no
control there in our intermediate hostels we have warden. He will wake you
up morning 7 4:00 right and then evening night up to the 10:00 he will monitoring
you are studying or not if not back said that's why you 100% studied and passed
everything stay away from the social media but in BT BT host no warden
hostels no war done finally coming to the back to the class without brain right uh so if you place all these
variables at a different place what is the problem there is a chance we may increase or decrease and finally we will
get what wrong results. Infinite loop we will get to solve a while loop problems. We got additional two loops do while and
for understand everyone say for loop is the
basic loop. No while loop is the basic loop. While is the basic loop while has two
problems that's why we have two extra loops. If while is not having any problem extra loops are not required.
It people did you ask this question any time in your life? Why three loops required? Okay. Why if if else if else
if l required requirements understood? Okay. Because with if I cannot execute
false condition logic if else. If with if and else only I can verify one condition on this value I want to verify
multiple conditions. Then if else if else ladder what the problem with if else if else? It will take more time to
execute shortcut I want than what switch then we have already while while is
meant for executing statements iterative way uh do while also meant for iterative
way for is also meant for iterative way there is no difference then why extra loops because while is having two
problems that's why two solutions okay uh write down here test case
Uh look at here in this Y loop har plus can you write a so that you can see the
number printing here? Uh write down plus a here plus a you write so that you will understand.
Comment a ++ semicolon
and test the result.
for the test case comment a+ semicolon and test the result. Now what you'll get
output
h one is printed
infinite times. Loop is never
terminated because a condition is
condition a less than or equals to 5 is always true
because a val a because variable a
value is always one.
Okay. Now,
uh, next write down. Problems of while
problems of while loop.
problems of Y loop or problems with Y loop and solution. Write on this
Are you writing full syntax only the table? Don't write first one already you know
that problem with the while loop and these two points completed.
Huh? So tell me now I want execute statement at least once then check the
condition to take decision further to continue or not. Then which one I have to use? Do I? I want first check
condition then execute logic. Then what I have to use while or for. While or for
meant for executing block of statements. First check condition then execute. Then
when you have while already why for loop because while loop requires variable
declaration, variable increment and checking condition they are available at three different places. If I use a for
loop all are available at single place. Okay let's try to understand dow while take it in x dow.
First we have to complete these three topics today.
do well.
Write down the statement first.
will please stop continuation. It means
if you want to execute a block of statements,
if you want to execute a block of statements,
write number one or one or n number of times.
It means if you want to execute a block of statements one or a number of times
we must use do.
We must use do. Uh now try to get idea on syntax.
Condition should be before statements or after statements are after statements.
If you condition there before statement statements are not executed. Right? Uh do then what?
Do do and rule do it. Okay. Do execute
these statements then check the condition. Okay. Right. Next. Very important. Very important. While for
ends with semicolon is optional. If you want right write otherwise leave it. But do while semicolon is mandatory. If you
forgot to write semicolon you will lose marks. In written test exam do while will be there. Your focus will be only
on logic. But semicolon will not be there. Okay. When you see do immediately
what you see logica or semicolon uh do immediately go semicolon thereh
there now check the remaining thing okay write
two rules are there in dual okay semicolon and rule number two variable
who won match yesterday. CS
uh RCB bad luck still continuing.
Yesterday you were there till match completed. I know you were there after match
completed then celebrations then slept up. Huh?
First feeling CSK all misfilling.
So the if the dialog is working or not working. Huh.
come later. Uh
let us write a small program. Uh, rewrite above program. Rewrite above program.
Rewrite above program by using do.
Rewrite above program by using doer.
Uh what you should write now start with do open bracket 1 second.
First you have to declare variable now India equal to 1. Then do system dot
out dot print len double quotes
hurry colon plus a
then while uh a less than or equals to 5 and tell
me how many times har now printed
five * Six times
multiple times by five times 6*
five also multiply six also multiply. What is the difference between previous
loop and this loop? Previously also you got five times. Now also you will get
five * a
uh again it is written it become what infinite loop why because there is no IO
I forgot okay incrementing again the same problem with dual there is a chance we may forgot uh incrementing the
variable a++ how many times executed five times
control on control two 1 2 3 4 5 But what is the difference between previous
one and now? Previously condition starts with condition checking starts with
one. Now condition checking starts with two.
Understood? Previously condition first executed one less than or equals to five. Now we checking with what two
condition checking from two onwards not one onwards. That is the difference.
uh uh realtime cases requirement we will discuss as part of object oriented programming. Uh here first a memory
created with value one then do any checking or directly going?
No checking directly going then first checking or increasing increasing two
increase one increased by two then condition checking starts with what two
two less than or equals to 5 true means what
loop iterated true means loop iterated
again do directly executed a++ increased by Three
uh 3 less than or equals to 5. True. Loop iterator.
A ++ 4
less than or equals to 5. True.
Then a ++ 4 increases by 5. Five less than or
equals to 6. True.
Five less than or equals to 5. True. Loop iterated.
First time hurry 1. Hurry 2. Hurry three.
Hurry four. And now hurry five.
Then a ++ 6.
Uh here checking it starts with what? 2 3
4 5 and then what? Six.
6 less than or equals to 5. False. Going out.
Previously observed condition executed for five times. Now condition sorry. Previously condition executed for six
times. Now condition executed with five times. So that clarity you need.
Shall I ask one worst question? I mean I don't know whether I should ask it or not. Just live example difference
between while and do while really worst example. Okay. But it can easily you can
remember for lifetime. That's why. Uh tell me you went to one bar and
restaurant. You went to the bar. Okay, you are already occupied your chair. The waiter
come to your place and asking sir do you want to drink?
Then tell me the customer look at the waiter or fellow I came to the bar for
drinking only. Now as a waiter what should ask? Do you want to drink or which brand you want?
Which brand you want? How much quantity you want? Yes or no? Uh after coming
into the bar if you ask me you want to drink sir and uh first round completed
now second round I should ask do you want more understand then tell me while do
bar is a do understand now tell me you come to the classroom while you're
coming to classroom admin is asking you want to go to which class
okay you want to go class Java HTML Java room number two
room number one. Uh then tell me admin first allowing you and asking a checking
and allowing her then what while so daily with you are working with while
after getting job when you go to barer then what is working there do while hope
you understand thank you that's all for today class hope you all got clear okay 1 minute still more seven minutes are
there we can complete for also uh downright next
take for loop 1 minute. 1 minute. The common problem.
The common problem. The common problem
for both for both
while and do while
and do while is
variable. Uh wait, wait, wait. There is a chance. There is a chance
we may forgot. There is a chance we may forget
to increase or decrease. to increase or decrease
variable value.
Then the loop then the loop
condition will be
always true.
Comma. Then loop is never terminated.
Then the loop is never terminated.
Second problem. Second problem.
The variable used in condition
is not is not destroyed.
Is not destroyed automatically.
Is not destroyed automatically.
is not destroyed automatically. Full store
solution we must use for loop.
We must use for loop. Now take a for loop.
Manish Gupta I am not skipping anything. Okay.
Previously we spend the time in the classroom. Now
I split the time main points and confusion points I am
explaining in the classroom and practice bits I am giving as a assignment you
work at home if you have any doubt ask me next class I will explain understood
if I want to skip really why I will share that big files I don't want to skip anything I will
share the only difference is earlier I am forcing the students to work in the classroom room itself. Now the main
points and practice bits main confusion practice bits I'm covering in the class.
More practice examples I'm giving as a assignment. That's it. So if you are interested work at home, spend your own
time. Anytime you come back if you got a doubts I will explain. Okay. Now okay done.
Today I don't have a class but I have class. Okay. Today I have a class. So Monday onwards if you want you can take
extra class. Uh now what the for loop syntax for variable declaration or
initialization listen initialization means two points are coming you can declare and
initialize both you can do in the same line or declare before for loop and then only initialize here and int a semicolon
before if before then you write a equal to one or you can write directly int a=
1 both you can do here semicolon Separator is semicolon. Then boolean condition A less than or equals to 5.
Then variable increment or decrement a + or a minus minus then the logic closed
bracket. Clear my point tell me all three are available at a different places same places same place. Is there
any chance that I forgot incrementing decrementing? If you forget compiler backside coming and slapping to fellow
you forot. Okay. So the syntax is forcing you to write. do while and while is not forcing you to write. Okay. Uh if
you need to prepare a loop to execute a block of statements on a rangebased
start and end range based 1 to 20 I want to execute. There is some start point
and end point between the range I want to execute. Then I have to use what for loop. If you needed to prepare loop by a
variable based condition by variable declaration, initialization condition, increment all by our own and if you know
how many times the loop statements must be iterate. Okay. Uh if you want to
prepare a loop to execute for some range of the values then we must choose for
loop or any of the three condition is your requirement then choose for loop. H incrementing decrementing is not in my
hand. variable declaration I'm not doing variable incrementing decrementing I'm not doing my responsibility only just to
call one method that method will decide when to continue when not to continue then I have to use while are you
following so variable declaration I'm not responsible variable incrementing decrementing I'm not responsible I am
responsible only condition checking then use while I want compulsory execute
logic one time then you have to use do while first execute then condition check do what variable declaration
initialization and next condition checking incrementing decrementing everything I only has to do then use
what for me okay write down the syntax and write down this statements
completed. Okay. Can you try the same for loop? Same example with the for loop. Uh
right. Rewrite above program by using for loop.
Rewrite above program by using for loop. Try at home and if you have any doubts, confusions, let me know. And anyways, I
will explain the for loop and the execution flow on Monday. Okay, Monday we will complete it and uh uh we will do
one thing Monday we I will try to also explain break continue. It may take just two three examples and then we'll go for
one example on inner for loop also inner loops also. So by Monday we will wind up this chapter. Okay. And more more
examples in the coming classes we are going to deal actually I plan tomorrow class for you to complete this control
flow statements but uh uh due to seniors class I have I cannot take tomorrow class. Okay. So tomorrow we will
tomorrow please revise control flow statements operators everything from first today. Can you please also go
through the entry questions on the Google? Try to solve all the questions available on the Google. Minimum five
websites you visit. Did you listen
boy? Okay, everyone listen. Tomorrow is very important day. operators,
variables, sorry, data types, variables, array, class, object, class and object,
operators, control flow statements, all topics you have to revise tomorrow. How
you revise? Not in your notes. Open Google, search data types in MCQs,
variables, MCQs, uh operators, MCQs, control flow statements, MCQs. Then try
to solve the questions so that you will get your conference will be improved. From Monday onwards, I will give you
three websites. Okay? You have to daily complete at least one question from three websites.
One, one totally three questions. Will it work out? Uh thank you. That's all for today class.
Tomorrow morning I will uh share one video. Okay. Uh can you please watch
that video? Tomorrow morning I'll share one video. Okay. Literal's topic is pending for us.
I have to share one video. Okay. Thank you.

