ript


Huh? So now int i = 1. Can you hear me students?
Int i = 1 and then i less than or equals to how many times you want to execute?
Five times. I ++ I ++ uh then now here hurry I'm printing
I same tell me logic first executed or
condition I mean uh condition first executed based on condition result only logic
executed while do while both are same the style of execution of while do while
same where is where is the difference the syntax is the difference. Okay. In
while you created variable and then check the condition logic executed then
incrementing or decrementing you are doing right. Uh so tell me what the flow of for loop execution here. First stop
int i = 1. Second step what the i value 1. One less than or equals to 5. True.
True means go inside. Then logic executed. True. Huh? True
means go inside logic executed. After logic execution completed, control comes
to end of the for loop. We'll go out of the looper. Iterate the looper.
Iterate the loop. Iterate the loop. Then what is executed? I ++.
Okay. Here first what is the output displaying? H one. I value 1. Uh now
loop iterated. I ++ I ++ means one is increased by two. Then uh this is step
number one. Condition is step number two.
Logic is step number three. Incrementing or decrementing is step
number four. I will not write again and again. Okay. Uh then what is the fifth step?
Come on. Condition is the fifth step.
Loop iterator condition checking. What is the condition value now? Two. Two
less than or equals to 5. Yes.
Yes. Then what happened again? True. Logic executed.
Uh what is output will printed? Hurry two. Okay. Then control come here again. What
happened? Loop iterated. Loop iterated. What is executed? I ++ I ++ is this is a
five and this is six. Logic execution six. Then incrementing seven. And then
this is 8. I value is what now? Three.
Three less than or equals to 5. True. True. Then now uh 9.
Uh now what is printed? I three.
Okay. Like this loop iterated again for the I value four. Four less than five.
True. Then what is executed? I four h four. Then again loop iterated. Uh what
is the I ++ value? Five. Five. Five less than or equals to five. True. Then again
logic executed. Hurry. Five. Uh loop iterated. Again loop iterated.
I ++ what is I ++ value? Six. 6 less than or equals to 5. False. Going out.
Understand? So this is the way loop is executed. If you know already flow of execution, no need to write. Other
people write.
If you know already flow of execution stop numbers, no need to write otherwise write.
if you are not writing tell me I'll go next point writing or not writing not writing
Come again.
completed understood everything. Okay. Next point.
Uh write down next. Inner loops or nested loops. Inner loop or nested loop.
Inner loop or nested loop. Inner loop or nested loop.
nested loop or inner loop. We can call it as inner loop or nested loop. A loop.
A loop. Which loop? Any loop? While do while for a loop that
is created. A loop that is created. in
a loop that is created in another loop.
A loop that is created in another loop is called
is called nested loop. A loop that is created
inside another loop is called nested loop. Please stop. That inner loop can
be the nested loop can be
can can be any of the three loops.
Can be any of the three loops. While do while for
while do while for
okay I will teach with for loop you work with other loops. Okay. Now syntax right
just syntax
for dash semicolon dash semicolon dash open bracket closed bracket here some
logic and then again I have written what
for some condition condition
Open bracket. Close the bracket and
large.
Okay. Place this one in one box.
I told you carry the different color pencil. Still no. You never listen whatever I'm
saying. Why you decided a faculty anything
telling we don't listen.
Uh this is what outer loop. This is inner loop or nest
loop. Generally people call nested loop but I
am comfortable with the word inner loop. Both are same. No no no difference in meaning.
Outer loop inner loop.
This is the first point we are learning anusha. Okay. Today this is the first point.
topic is inner loop. Up to now I have explained last class Saturday class topic. I just given
revision.
Uh now the question tell me from the line number 14 to line number
24. Yeah line number 24. Line number 14 to
line number 24. All these statements are executed how many times?
One time, two times, three times are repeatedly repeatedly how many times based on the
condition. Suppose I give the condition here is I give the condition here is
less than or equals to five. Okay? Less than or equals to five I given. How many
times now this loop is executed? Five times. Okay. One coming here. Two
again. Three and again four and again five. In sixth iteration it will go out.
Any confusion? No confusion. Uh now the confusion starts for the watching people.
Okay. Watching people. Apply mind. Apply mind. Uh listen. Now this statement
these two statements how many times executed?
These two statements definitely five times executed or not? Outer loop five iterations are there. Now outer loop
five iterations only five times executed. No these two statements outer
loop five applied on what? Inner loop. Inside inner loop again you have
condition. Huh? Uh tell me these two statements how many times executed?
Outer loop five into inner loop three. Suppose here I given less than or equals
to three. Less than or equals to three. Okay. 5 into three. How many times
execute? Totally 15 times executed. How many times these statements are executed? Five times. How many times
these statements are executed? Five times. Uh how many times these two statements are executed? 15 times for
each iteration of the outer loop three times executed. Understand? So tell me
when should I use inner loop? If you want to execute some statements multiple
times in each iteration. If you want to execute some statements
inside the loop. If I want to execute some statements repeatedly in each
iteration then I have to use what inner loop. Okay. Write on that point. Write
down this example first. Write down this less than or equals to 5. Less than or equals to 3.
Then these statements executed five times. Write down five times.
Five times. And here 5 into 3 15 times.
As I have written you should write if you write half of the points then future
will confuse you. Okay. Uh side you have right side you write. If you want to
execute wait inside a loop, inside a loop,
if we want to execute
some statements repeatedly,
repeatedly In each iteration,
in each iteration, again repeating, inside a loop, if you
want to execute some statements repeatedly in each iteration, comma, we
must use
we must use what? Nested loop.
Okay. Uh again repeating the statement
inside a loop for each iteration.
If you want to execute Some statements
repeatedly we must use
nested loop. Okay. Uh
in general
we will use nested loop.
In general, we will use nested loop
in printing.
Uh 1 minute 1 minute 1 minute 1 in matrix
matrix program in bracket table matrix or table both are both are same
matrix program and in printing
patterns in bracket
patterns also So a matrix or table
pattern is also a matrix or table.
Okay. Now, okay. First let us understand the flow of execution of this inner for loop. then we'll go for
matrix program or other programs completed. Shall I clear these notes?
So again I'm repeating I have for loop inside for loop I have
some statements to execute repeatedly for each iteration. In one iteration I
want execute again and again. Then I have to use nested for loop. Uh now let's see now the code small program.
What is the output from below program? You only has to tell. I don't tell. What
is the output from the below program?
What is the output from below program?
System.out print ln start. How many time this method
executed? Only one time because it is available directly. Okay.
How many times this is executed? One time. Because it is also directly available inside the method. If I write
a statement directly inside the method, the statement has a chance to execute only one time. Uh if I write inside,
okay, if I write a statement inside the for loop or while loop or dowh loop, how
many times it is executed based on the condition. Okay. In the
Okay. um in
outer loop. Okay. And next I'm writing one more loop
here for don't write. Okay. Uh now here I'm writing in inner
loop. How many time this loop executed? Outer condition into
inner condition. Right? H write down for int i = 1 i less than or = 5 i ++.
Can I use the same variable i again? Yes sir. No. This variable I scope is
available up to end of the outer for loop. Huh? If I use I again int i equal
to that means you are creating second time. First time I variable scope is deleted or not deleted. Not destroyed.
First I variable scope is not destroyed. I cannot use again. I should use what another variable int J = 1
J less than or equals to 3
J ++. Here I'm giving three spaces gap. Did
you notice three spaces gap
here? I'm giving slash also in inner loop beginning I have given slash in.
Yeah, you can write I1, I2 your wish. But generally I1, I2 we don't use. It's
a confusion. I1 equal to 1, I2 equal to 1. Confusion.
That's why generally people follow I J K one more inner loop. If you want then K
I JK.
Uh I want you tell of this program by your own.
uh next week I will take one workshop on patterns program around some 50 15 to 20
patterns programs we'll discuss for one week is it okay now because let's not waste time on uh
continuing these programs just we got syntax knowledge now we have to practice more logical programs logical programs I
will take as a separate workshop workshop means it will be one week or 10 days extra classes I will take not as a
regular class not as a 9 to 11 9 to1 regular class extra time I will take if
you possible attend not possible in your free time watch that that videos will be there on the YouTube okay now so this
week I want to take workshop on annotations for spring boot classes. I want to take workshop on reflection AP
and annotations for your senior students for your batch. Coming days I will plan two workshops. Clear my point.
Uh right right output
Any
of you are coming from KPHP? KPHP 1 2 3 All are staying in Amit.
You know we have branch in KPHP also. Okay. Just letting you uh what is the
flow of execution? Tell me how many times this is executed. Five
times. How many time this is executed? Three times. Okay. Now first starts with
what? I value. I value starts with one.
Uh okay. Then now I value 1 less than or equals
to 5. True. Then go inside inner in outer loop. First message displayed
what? One. Okay. Then come here for and tell me
here once you enter it into for loop one time executed coming out until condition failed
until condition failed. Then the statement executed here J variable memory created
with value one. J variable memory created with value
one. Uh now SON what is the J value one? One less than or equals to 3. J less
than or equals to 3. Uh then true. Then go inside. Now this is outer loop one.
Then what is printed here? Inner loop one. Okay. Uh then tell me loop is
iterator. Now it will not go inside. What I told you inner loop means inner
loop means uh if I want to execute some statements as part of outer loop one
iteration repeatedly as part of outer loop one iteration repeatedly I want to
execute then I have to use what inner loop now repeatedly executing J++ J++
means what two two less than or equals to 3 true again going inside uh inner
loop colon what is the value two will come then again loop iterated again loop
iterated J++ what the J value three less than or equals to three true again
executed uh in our loop what is the value three okay uh loop again iterated
J value is what four less than or equals to three false means going out to where
now outer loop then control is coming outer loop iteration I ++ what the I ++
value two again outer loop two uh now outer loop two again control go here
again enter loop executed now how many times executed three times so this is the flow of execution
inner loop uh one inner loop
2 inner loop three like this inner loop is executed
repeatedly how many times? Five times. Can I expect everyone understand? Okay,
tell me now. Here in place of SOPN
based on our project requirement, we write the logic. In place of this SOPn
based on our project requirement, we write inner loop I mean inner inner loop logic. Currently I take an SOP for you
to understand the concept. This is a concept based example. So going on based on your project requirement outer loop
play this SO plane place outer loop logic inner loop place inner loop logic we are going to write that's it okay now
accept the concept and repeatedly understand the different implementations that's all about nested loops concept
let me run this code one compile successfully semicolon expected somewhere written comma you also written
a comma 1 compile control to executed we are getting
output start in outer loop one three times inner loop iterations. Okay. Outer
loop two three times. Inner loop. Outer loop three three times. Outer loop four three times. Outer loop five three
times. So if you want to execute some statements repeatedly
inside a loop for each iteration then I have to use inner loop. Okay. Now let us
try one small program for patterns. Yeah. Once it come out of this for loop,
J variable is destroyed. When you go for the next iteration, J variable is again
created. Correct? Every time J variable is destroyed and recreated for outer
loop iteration, right? Let us try once one program only
one program for patterns program and then remaining patterns programs we'll discuss in the coming classes. Let's not
waste time now. Test 11 underscore pattern.
Develop a program to display
Develop a program to display below pattern by using nested loop.
Start.
Come on, you have to try. Tell me here this is a table or not?
It is a table.
Hello. It is a table. What is this? Rows.
Row one, row two, row three, row four, row five.
Rows are represented by outer loop.
Okay. Now, rows are represented by outer loop.
Now tell me row one to row five. This outer loop I value start with 1. I less
than or equals to 5. Then how many rows start printed? 1 2 3 4 5. Only if I read
if only if I write outer loop for int i equal to0 i less than or equals to five i ++ s and star. SP and star. If I write
then what happen? I value 1 star printed loop iterated plus I value two. Two
stars printed. One star printed. One star. You written what? S O L and star only.
Now uh second row also what is printed? Star loop iterated. I ++ uh again three
stars printed. One star printed. One star printed one star. Loop iterated
one star. Loop iterated one star. So currently you written a program only for
what rows to print. Okay observe. I'll write code for you.
If you know already in academics all these points is well well and good. If you don't know just learn if you already
know take it as a revision. You can show your yes I have a chance to show my talent to Harishna. Okay Harishna better
code will write I will write better code. That challenge you have to take. If you don't know try if you give wrong
answer copy my talent and simple. Okay. Uh sir already I know boring sir. If you
are boring then in company also you'll bore. Oh, in company you have to develop unknown things of which you know now
which you know plus unknown things when you know already if team manager coming can you write this code already I know
your job is continued no so it is a chance for you to show your talent you feel it is a project you are developing
in the company I less than or equals to five I ++ what you written sar
uh then control one five lines Five stars will be printed.
Five lines. Five stars will be printed. 1 2 3 4. Currently you have written outer loop for column wise or row wise.
Row wise. You want to print column wise or row wise. Hey,
you want to print column wise? Row wise. Row wise columns also. Row wise plus
columns. First row. How many columns? one column, second row, third row,
fourth row, fifth row. Okay, that means
in each iteration I want to execute the star printing logic one time or more
than one timer more than one time first row one time second row come on there is
a point behind to write the logic that's why I'm telling again and again first time one time second time two time third
time fourth row fifth row that means
What is the you want to execute same logic star printing logic repeatedly again and
again. You want to execute star printing logic again and again. First iteration,
second iteration again and again. Third iteration again and again and again. Fourth iteration again and again. That
means this SOP and star I have to execute one time on more than one time
on more than one time. If you want execute which concept I have to use nested loops only I have to use nested
loops I have to use uh now observe here I'm writing nested loop for for uh tell
me in first iteration how many times you want to execute second iteration third iteration fourth
iteration start with always you want to start with what one
int J equals to One first row first first column and first column second row
first column plus second column third row first second third that means start
with one ends with what
everyone first iteration one time second iteration second time third iteration
third time who is representing iteration outer loop so what I should Write I J ++
everyone understand so what is the condition here the inner loop condition
is not your wish like previous program three the inner loop condition is depending on the outer loop okay I don't
want to print first row five times I want print first row one time second row two time third row three time 1 2 3
where I value in first row I value one second row I value two third row I value three. Fourth row I value four. So like
that you should have little mindset here. Calculation mindset. Control one, control two. Look I keep on telling
speak out speak all are printing in one line.
Huh? Where is the problem? Print ln is the problem. What should I use? Print.
There are two print statements are there. Print and print ln. Print will print the data. Place the cursor in the
same line. So the next value printed in the same line. Uh now tell me if I want
to print first second one I want to print second star I want to print next to the first star only. So what I should
write? Print. If I write print all stars will be printed in one line.
You want to print one line? No. First row one star. Second row. Second row
means what? Outer loop. Second iteration. when control come out of this first for loop first iteration for loop
inner loop then I want to move the cursor to the next line. So what I should write system dot out dot print
len of empty line print len of empty line control one compile control two
expected output coming or not? Uh first iteration print executed one less than or equals
to 1. Loop iterated 2 less than or equals to 1 false print ln. Cursor is moving to the next line. Then next loop
iterated. Uh I value what two 2 less than or equals to 5. Yes. Then J value 1
J 1 less than or equals to 2. Yes. Star printed. This is star printed. And then cursor placed in the same line. Then
loop iterated. Then I value what? Sorry inner loop. Inner loop J value what?
Two. Two less than or equals to two. Yes. Star printed. Uh then now loop
iterated J value three. Three less than or equals to two. No. Then start printed. No. Going out. Going out of the
inner loop. S O P ln control is going to the next line. All people are watching.
Hey watching. Don't watch mama. Okay. Try to tell. Try to tell. If you don't
speak, you cannot understand. Uh I ask you to print with the stars. Now I mean with the space, right? Space, space,
space, space. I want there are no space. Uh then what I should write? Star space.
Save it. Control 1 compile. Control 2 execute.
Expected output coming or not? Uh like this there is a so much of discussion is there. Can you write inverted triangle?
inverted end first five then four then two then one like this
there are so many pattern programs are there we will discuss them later at this minute I want just wind up with this one
program I don't want to waste so much of time on this so if you can write write otherwise copy
flow of execution use pen and paper
use pen and pepper
operators. If you forget, you cannot work with control flow statements.
Operators what they are doing, how many operators you learn, logical operators, relational operators, equality
operators, addition operators, subtraction operators. You know most of the time in your projects you the
operators you are using are relational assignment operator plus relational and
logical operators. If you forget them then writing program
implementing logic is very difficult.
Use pen and paper buddy you will understand already I have explained. If you don't listen with focus, use
yourself pen and paper and try. If you got doubt, ask me. Just now I have explained. If you don't listen, I cannot
do anything right.
Use pen and paper. Write the flow of execution like previous program I explained.
What J less than or equals to 3 is doing all the mask on
J less than or equals to 3. What it is doing? Same thing J less than or equals to I is doing
there is no difference. Uh please write down here here
inner loops are used for preparing matrix. Is it a matrix or not? Yes.
In first iteration how many columns I have to print? One column. Second iteration two columns. Third iteration
three columns. Fourth iteration, four columns. Fifth iteration, five columns. Uh
listen, write down please. This is outer loop representing what? Rows.
Outer loop representing rows. R1, row one, row two, row three, row
four, row five. How many rows you want to print? One. I value is
1. 2. I value is what? Five.
That's a confusion point. Please make a note. Uh next
columns. Who represent columns?
Inner loop represent columns. Column one,
column 2, column 1, column 2, column 3, column 4,
column 5.
Uh then inner loop
I represents columns.
C1 column 1 column 2 column 3 column 4 column 5
starts with what? J
equals to 1 and less than or equals to I.
Write down that the diagram is very important.
Anisha why you have written J less than plus I
less than or equal to equal to I guess right
completed.
Everyone completed writing this one. Uh now let's
try one program and then we'll wind up. Same program. Same program. Uh reverse reverse
triangle pattern. First I want to print first column five
second column. Second row 4 3 2 1.
Now try everyone try.
Come on. Try try right try try. Don't think while writing you think.
How many columns? First row. Five columns. Totally. How many rows?
Totally. How many rows you want to print? Five rows. Now tell me I value one. I less than equals to five. I ++.
Right or wrong? Uh why wrong?
Because you wanted to execute first row for five times.
Uh you want descending order, ascending order, ascending order. First, five rows. I
mean first five then four 3 2 1 previous
I have start with what? one ascending order. Now this is descending order.
Uh this is descending order. Descending order means I have to start I value what? Five.
Five. Uh I greater than or equals to 1. I decrease
5 2 1 I have to decrease what minus minus then next for loop columns how
many columns I value start with what one I less than or equals to I less than or
equals to what write I J++ any difference here no uh J value printed
first star then J value two less than or equals to 5 star 3 less than or equals
to 5 Star four less than or equals to five star five less than or equals to five star just you need to apply your
calculation brain that's it two to three examples if you try like this your mind will be habituated when to take
condition how to take condition just one or two examples you cannot decide okay daily practice it's like a cycle riding
cycle riding okay first day you didn't understand balance second day you didn't understand balance by riding daily by
one week you got the balance next just by writing program giving you will not get the balance. Practice same program
second time, third time so that your mind will open open up with the logic. Tell me now first row five stars are
printed. Now six less than or equals to 5 false coming out. Okay. Now one new
line printed coming out of the inner outer loop. First iteration go to the second I value what minus minus four
greater than one. Yes. Then I value one. uh J value
1 one less than or equals to four yes then four four times printed then three
times two times one time let's see is our output coming as per expected or not
yeah you can also write like that also you have to make sure that Five iterations executed here you can write
15 you know here you can write 10 also there is no rule that 1 to five you have to write okay 10 to 15 I can write 150
to 100 you can write so it's up to you depends okay now
make sure that five iterations execute
okay expected output coming or not so like this can you try More start
patterns you can write triangle inverted triangle. Currently we are trying with
what? Half triangle. This is half triangle. Right side left side half. Can you try right side half?
Right side half. This side spaces coming. Now these left right side spaces should come to left side. Okay. Now try
how to work out yourself. Definitely you will enjoy. If you want to work with right side of you should write inside
inner for loop. uh what do you call if else conditions you are right star space
should print a star should print you have to decide okay now
right angle triangle left angle triangle inverted triangle so many patterns are there so okay we'll try to understand
the next coming classes with this we completed what loops completed and also
nested loops also completed now next getting
infinite loops Next Okay. Infinite loops.
Infinite loops.
Infinite loops. Now what the infinite loop?
A loop. What is infinite loop? A loop.
that never terminated executes infinite number of times is
called what? Infinite loop. Uh how can we prepare infinite loop?
Never terminated. When a loop is never terminated. If condition is always true then it is a
infinite loop. How can I prepare a condition is true always? uh if I write true directly, I can write
true literal directly or I can write a condition that always returns what?
True. Suppose I written in equal to 1. One less than five that I value never
increased. Then that is what always I value one always less than five. Right? It is become infinite loop. Okay. Int i
equal to 1. 1 equal to equal to 1 double equal to 1. Next one value never
increased. Then what happened? Always it is also uh always it is also infinite loop
because always the condition value is true. It is also become infinite loop. If you write directly true in the
condition place or if you prepare a condition that always generates the true
value then we call it as what? Infinite loop. Okay. Write on three points. First point, a loop
that is never terminated. A loop that is never terminated.
Comma. Executes always. Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. Executes infinite number of times.
executes infinite number of times or continuously.
Executes infinite number of times or continuously
until we close it explicitly until we close it explicitly.
Until we close it explicitly is called
is called Infinite loop is called infinite loop
is called infinite loop.
for hyphen semicolon hyphen semicolon hyphen
open bracket closed bracket some statements are here.
Okay. What the meaning of infinite loop? Condition check
going inside. Repeated repeated repeated
executing how many times? Infinite symbol? Infinite number of
times is called what? Write on this diagram.
Don't write class main method only write for loop this diagram this
Uh here arrow mark here
condition value is
always true.
Condition value is always true.
Condition value is always true.
Condition value is always true.
completed a uh down.
If we place If we place directly
directly the literal true
directly the literal true or
or an expression
or An expression which generates
always which generates always
true t r u a true
repeating again. If we place directly the literal true underline true
or an expression which generates always true comma
then this loop then this loop
execution is never terminated.
is never terminated.
Comma. It is considered as
It is considered as infinite loop.
It is considered as infinite loop.
Now look at here I'm writing infinite loop case one
while true open bracket closed bracket
system dot out dot Print ln
double quotes five.
Uh now look at here this is a infinite loop or not while true. True means never
terminated. Pi is keep on running. Compile execute.
I wanted to see how many times it is running. Uh if you want to see how many times it is running what I have to do
one count variable you take int count equal starts with what zero high plus+
count I want increase at least one one start with zero first increase and print
increase and print increase and print that's why I'm taking plus+ kind don't write all three++ like this
compiler confuse and throw er plus not there okay unex expected type what are
you doing I don't understand okay so you have to give the space here compile
uh execute
okay even if you come tomorrow also it will
come until you close it is not terminated keep on running close this so
if I give true here infinite loop this is infinite loop case one uh next same
program I am writing infinite loop case 2 same 13 only I'm
maintaining program number is 13 only because same just cases I'm changing uh while place I'm writing here
I'm placing here do open bracket
open bracket closed bracket uh what I should write here semicolon uh
First do executed condition checking. What is the condition value? True. Always it is executed. It never
terminate
control 1 compile control. Okay. Now keep on running. Now same way
I'm writing copy case number three.
Uh look little new syntax you are going to see for
hyphen hyphen sorry sir semicolon semicolon now
semicolon semicolon and just I left like this
okay uh tell me is it compile or not compile compile or not compile not compile
because I'm not giving just wrong syntax I'm writing Okay. Yes. Number three. Yeah.
Huh. So I have not given any value. Variable declaration I not given. Variable
declaration I not given. Condition I not given. Increment decrement I have not given. Control one. One minute. Count
variable I have to remove. Int count equal to zero.
Okay. I have not given anything here. Control one.
Hey, compile. Okay. Control 2.
Oh my god, it is executing. Compile and executing. What do you
understand here? What is What do you understand here? The
default value for for loop condition is true. For while, do while you have to
write true or false. If you don't write compiler throw error. Look at that. I didn't write true. Compiler throwing
error. Illegal start of expression. Okay. Do while I'm not writing anything here. Compiler throw error. Illegal
start of expression. Uh for for loop if I don't write anything by default it is
considered as true. Control 1 control 2. Look at there. So default value is true.
If you don't write also it is compiled. Okay. Write on these three cases. You want write as a program or you write
as a code snippet wish. Case one. Case two. Case three.
You write as just code snippets or you want write as uh programs your wish class main method
or just only in count while loop.
completed. Do while completed.
Same thing. Do while
H shall I proceed? Semicolon mandatory. Do you remember do
while semicolon mandatory?
Next in case three.
Remember while working with loops if you are using your eyes not drawing the
memory diagram and not doing the with the pen calculation you will give always
wrong answers. Be careful compulsory you have to use pen and paper and answer otherwise you
will fail all you give wrong answers. Compulsory draw diagram pen paper you
use variable declaration there draw memory da then increment is there go and
increment and then use it. So otherwise you will give definitely wrong answers.
Uh here arrow mark
we no need to place
room compiler places it automatically.
A for loop
a for loops condition.
Okay. A for loops condition default value
is is
default means when you don't write remember when we don't write a for loops
default value is True.
Understood? Completed a writing shall proceed. Next point
uh look at here more two cases we'll write and wind up this
case number four. I'm taking here count variable start with zero and I'm writing
here count less than count less than five count less than
five and I am writing only count I have not increased that count value
just I written expression but I didn't increase the count value you can take count equal to one count less than five
and printing what count I didn't is Io
semicolon semicolon all three are optional all three parts are optional variable declaration I did
outside same variable I'm using here incrementing decrementing I'm not doing
then count value is always what one less than five true high one loop iterated
one less than five control one control
always executed high one in uh will come. So here you can use either for
loop or you can use what while also both let us write while counter less than
five either this or that. Okay now not both either this or that. Let me write
here R either Y loop or for loop you can write control one it is also written what
open bracket must be there control 1 compile and control 2 you will get high
one okay write on this if you forgot variable incrementing
either first or second you
What is the comment you had right here? Count variable
value is not increased. So
its value is always one which is less
than five. Hence the condition
count less than five
is always returns true.
Then loop is never
terminate. Explanation if you want right otherwise
leave it. Your wish
completed comment also written
nonIT background students compressor I should write comment IT background no problem they already
know nonIT if you are also feeling lazy to write then later
we'll cry You know ignorance is your best enemy.
Always pull you down. Uh now last case
this one also may be there. Case number five.
Count= 1. count equal to equal to 1.
In place of less than I have written here one
All these cases you will get in exam in the written test exam. Remember to get
into the company first you have to qualify written test exam. First round written test exam will be there. Written
test exam will have two questions. Number one, aptitude questions, arithmetics and reasoning. Are you
preparing CRT course? There is a course called CRT, campus recruitment training, arithmetics and
reasoning. Arithmetic center, fifth class, sixth class, 7th class, mathematics.
Fifth to 10th, fifth to 10th mathematics is called aptitude. Arithmetics, sorry,
arithmetics. Okay. Algebra, all these points will be there. That is called second reasoning. Reasoning means mental
calculation. A B C. Next what will come? Wow. Uh
okay. Uh A C E. Next what will come? Z right. Uh 1
35. Next what will come? Yeah you are masters in reasoning. So like this some
mind calculation will be there. Okay that is reasoning. In the same paper you will have Java
technical questions also. They will give you one program asking what is the output. Multiple choice questions will
be there. Option one, option two, option three, option four. You have to choose one right option. So if you pass the
first round arithmetics and technical questions then second round face to face will be there. In facetoface round you
will be asking object oriented questions, definitions. What is static
variable? What is non-static variable? What is static method? What is non-static method? What is constructor?
What is object- oriented programming? What is class? What is object? What is encapsulation? What is inheritance? What
is polymorphism? So these kind of questions will be asked and one or two
array based programming as searching sorting algorithm. Can you write bubble sort program? Can you write selection
sort program? Can you write a linear search linear searching algorithm program? Can you write binary searching
algorithm program? So phase two phase questions will be there plus array based
to one program will be there to write. If you qualify then third round project
manager round in project manager round project related questions will be there uh in this program null point exception
will come or not in this small small snippets they will write on the paper and show you asking here null pointer
exception will come class exception will come class not found exception will come. Okay. How you use collection in
the project? How you use spring boot in the project? Where did you use exceptional in the project? This kind of four five questions will be there. First
round if you pass. Second round more easy. Third round more more easy. Again
difficulty round is HR round. First round and last round is difficult. Entry point exit point is difficult. HR
will play with your brain like anything. The first question if they will ask of course tell me about yourself and next
what is your weakness? Immediate next question. What is your weakness? When what is your weakness?
When they ask, if you say yes sir, laziness is my weakness.
I'll be more sleepy sir. I am shortteer sir. If you say your real weakness
as a weakness, who will give job to you? If you say I'm lazy, will I give job to
the lazy person? No. I'm very much honest, sir. I never lie.
When to lie, when to should not lie, you should know. There is a two things are there. You will say lie for managing
purpose. Accepted. You are telling lies for cheating purpose not accepted. HR
you are not cheating. You are managing to get the job. You are managing. So you
should not say I am lazy sir. I am short as a short-term. If you say will get job
team manager always will scold you. Whenever he is scolding in the tension you will go and beat him like anything.
So never say I am lazy, short-tempered or you know sleepy. Now if you are
sleepy if I give job what will in company man AC room will be there fully AC room then what you'll start happily
sleeping. So then what should I say sir? Your positive you should tell as a negative
your weakness your positive attitude should tell as a negative weakness that
will be asset to the company that must be an asset to the company. You should prepare for HR round also and what
questions interviewer ask you should already guess prepare answers for them and go to interview. Uh after asking
questions I will answer and you never get job. Okay, I already get ready myself for my interview. My interview
ask me question. I mean HR asked me question. Tell me what is your weakness
not smile. Okay, because you know you are cheating now. I mean you are managing so you should not smile uh with
a serious face looking that side this side. Think now what is your weakness? You have to think
right in your room that corner this corner you have to see. Yeah and you have to use this connector connector
words. Okay. Yeah actually uh I realized that this is my weakness by my friends.
My friends used to tell me. So I'm say I'm feeling that this is my weakness. Actually my helping nature is my
weakness. When I say helping nature is my
weakness. HR look at me. What are you telling? How helping nature is weakness? Man this is a good thing to you know
yeah good thing for other person not to me.
uh so my helping nature is my weakness so I should justify my answer right so
then I I told to my HR actually in my academics my friends used to ask me the
concept explanation I'm I'm understanding very well even complex concepts also but uh you know my friends
are asking me my free time I'm spending to explain to my friends extra content
I'm unable to study my time is wasted finally I got less marks so how much I'm
justifying why I got less marks that is real not real none of his business okay
and he cannot ask me why you got less marks I already told told helping nature I'm explaining my time I'm wasting for
my friends and next I don't have any bad habits so whatever my father giving
money is saving and when my friends are asking I am giving to them when I am in Indeed they are not returning obviously
now right they never return back so then I am losing my money finally because of
my helping nature I lost my time and lost my money so that is what my
weakness then tell me in a company because of my
helping nature when my team member or other team member is in trouble I will go and help them by stopping my work
also not that is asset to the company. No this HR
told to my team lead already selected me okay because of my
helping nature company is in good position I'm helping to others then my team lead okay my HR is very close to my
team lead and he told Har is having upon weakness helping nature be careful my
team lead first today warned me hey when I give task to you focus on
your work don't help to others Okay. Okay. But really that is my weakness
actually. Now I am started working in company. Already I was a faculty before I joined the company. Already one and a
half year worked as a faculty. I know everything in Java. So I got the job and I started working on my tasks. Suddenly
my team members my friends are coming and asking me har please explain this. I stopped work and started explaining. My
team lead daily is calling me. Ray I told you you don't waste then when they
ask how to how can I say that how can I res get out I don't first you complete your task by night I have to complete
I'll complete don't worry about it within the time what the time you gave me I will finish it and go okay then
okay then he agreed so like this one negative you find in you no no one
positive you find in you and tell that is your negative that is your weakness
whatever you are speaking in the interview That should be benefit to the company.
One negative of you which causes problem to the company never reveal even to
after getting job also to your friends also never tell your secrets in company
one one person become friend to you close friend to you at any time he may become enemy
because he's very close to you never reveal your secrets especially for the people who are getting job with a fake
experience okay some people will be there they are very close to you and start mama You are a fake experience.
No. If he say yes because of closeness uh he will start open his real colors.
He will go and talk to the manager. He is a spy to the manager. That fellow is fake. Then you'll be
terminated. So never disclose your secrets to any of your friends in the company. Even they are very close to
you. Okay. Now up to company they are just employees. Once they stop you step
out who is he? Who is you? Nobody knows. Remember that point. Okay. Huh? Why
unnecessary start? These all the questions are very important for your first round. First round qualifying is
depending on your mind calculation and if you are lazy in doing the calculation
with the pen 100% you will fail in the first round itself. So practice with your pen. Okay. Completed this one.
Let's see. I'll give you one small question. How many people can answer? Uh write down what is the output from below
code. What is the output from below program?
What is the output from below program?
Huh? Tell me what is the output of this program?
Hi. Hello.
Hi. Hello. Welcome only. Hi.
How many times infinite number of times high 100% pa
100% in this program high executed right is this line has at least one chance to
execute is this line has at least one chance to
execute at least once. Marinduras, why did you write?
Is this line has at least one chance to execute? No. Then why you return?
Compiler is questioning you. Compiler is asking you. Hind
you join you, you join one course by paying 10,000 rupees. One day also you
are not attending the class. Then why did you join? Why you wasted 10,000 rupees?
Compiler will throw error. That is spelling mistake. Wait.
Compiler throw error. What the error? Unreachable statement snn. Hello. So if
you write directly true condition true condition loop directly true
condition loop after loop if you place any statement compiler will throw error
unreachable statement because the statement is never executed unreachable
statement. Okay, write on this. Write down rule.
I mean first write program and then tell your rule.
Write
down this statement. I
Come later on
down right. Case number seven.
Rewrite above program
with value false. Rewrite above program with value false.
and check and check the output.
And check the output. Uh leave that space gap. Case number eight.
You have to write that program again. Check in your system. Okay. Case number eight.
Rewrite above program.
with a count variable. With a counter variable
initialized with one,
initialized with one and a condition
less than or equals to 5. less than or equals to 5.
What? Rewrite above program with the count variable initialized with one with
the condition less than or equals to 5, don't increase.
Don't increase count value. And what loop it is infinite loop. I
want infinite loop with a variable expression. Then find output difference
then find output difference. Okay. Will you try these two test cases in your system so that you will get good
awareness mind maturity you will get. Okay. So the pending topic in this
chapter is break statements break continue and return. So tomorrow we will
complete and we'll start object oriented programming. Okay. As we are going as per schedule little bit we have to speed
up. Okay, in object- oriented programming, okay, we can start little bit speed, no problem. So, tomorrow
class is very important. Please don't miss. And today class if you practice, next classes will be easy. Daily we are
going to work with this these concepts only. I requested you to revise the operators on Sunday class. Did you
revise? One more time revise. Daily you revise operators. Okay. Thank you.
That's all for today class.
Happy holy to all. Enjoy.
exam hall ticket and take a link.
upload.

