ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Okay. So last class we have completed
transfer statements break continue written and their respect to rules everything we have learned. One last
topic is there. Please let us continue. Let's complete that. Uh write on label
just 5 minutes topic 5 to 10 minutes topic not more than topic is label.
Topic is label.
Yeah. Many places you are going to work while working with uh control flow statements. Many times
you will use labels.
So what is a label? Have we come across the word label?
Label where? No, I'm not asking in Java outside in
the real life. In real life, have we come across the word label? Where?
Cover box works. Excellent. Uh book is there. A book book has any name
you bought one a new book that is just a booker is a common word book but it is a
social book it is Telugu book English book mass book uh then tell me
you have to place one a label on that sticking one label with the name what
social telugu Hindi mass isn't it uh that extra information concept is called
what label we have something that doesn't have name but I want to provide a name to it then
we need a label. Uh observe I am writing for loop for open bracket closed
bracket. Uh here I am writing one statement system.out Outer print outer
loop something name I am writing outer loop. Int i = 1 i less than or equals to
10 i ++. Okay. Now it is a loop. Does it
have any name? No. It is a method. Does it have name? What is the name of the
method? Main. It has it is a loop. Does it have any name? No. I created one
block. The block doesn't have name. Sometimes I need to refer that block. I want to provide a name to it. For that I
required what? Label. So next uh how to provide a label. Okay, label is nothing
but a identifier. A label is a identifier to a block. A label is a
identifier or name to a block. What are the rules we must follow while following identifier seven rules? Remember it
should have letters, digits and special character dollar underscore. It should not starts with a digit. It should not
contain special characters other than dollar and underscore. It should not contain space. Keyword it is a case
sensitive. Keyword cannot be used as a identifier. Predefined class name can be used as a identifier. Single underscore
you cannot use as a identifier. These are the seven rules we have to follow. Huh? Now suppose I am writing a. I have
written a. A is now what? Identifier. So tell me how are you saying that this is
a name and this is a parameter by separating with round bracket. Now how can I say this is a name and this is a
logic logic and name is separated by open bracket. Similarly I want to say
this is a identifier this is a label. It is a identifier or label and this is the
loop. How can we separate them? By using colon. How? By using colon. By using colon. So
a colon for if you write then what happen now? Uh it is considered as a label and it is considered as a loop. Uh
so what the name of this loop now a everyone understand? Uh now I want to
create one more loop here for or while anything is okay. Okay. While or for anything is okay. Now I'm writing in J =
J = 1 J less than or equals to J less than or equals to uh
three I am writing okay five I am writing J++
okay this is copy paste and this is inner loop
this is inner loop okay huh now tell me is this inner loop has any name or no name no name I want to provide a name to
it. What you write now? B colon A B colon I have written. So if you want to
provide a name to any block, if you want to provide a name to a unnamed blocks,
If you want to provide a name to a unnamed blocks, I can use what? Label.
Understand? Right. So what is the what is a label? Label is a identifier,
it is a name to a unnamed block. If you want to provide a name to a unnamed
block, I can use label concept. What is the syntax? Syntax is identifier colon
then block. That block can be a if block can be a for block or can be any
conditional block or loop block or switch anything. Any block any block you can take either conditional block or
loop block or just nameless block you can take. Then what is the syntax? Identifier colon and block you have to
write. Sir, what is the need of this sir? If you want to access this, this
loop from inside this loop, I want to access outer loops inside inner loop.
Suppose if I write here break, which loop will be broken? Inner loop will be broken. Okay. Here
inner loop I inner loop J colon J colon plus J I have written. Then tell me what
is the output you will get here. Compile and execute. Uh what you're getting now?
Look at that. Outer loop. Inner loop J. Outer loop. Inner loop J. Outer loop. Inner loop J. Outer loop. Inner loop J.
Which loop broken only? Inner loop is got broken. Uh no. I want outer loop to
be broken. Then I have to use break. I should tell to break array breaker.
Break outer loop. What the name of the outer loop? A look at that outer loop. I
colon plus I. And here I am writing
for clarity purpose I am writing. And now first what I have written break only break will break only inner loop system
dot outprint sorry system dot out.print
after inner loop. Save it. Control 1 compile. Control 2. Now look at there.
What is the output you are getting? Every time this mouse
after inner sorry where is this uh outer loop one inner loop one why
inner loop next loop next iteration not coming because of break after inner loop
then again outer loop iterated two inner loop one after inner loop. So how many
iterations outloop executed? 10 iterations.
Okay, 10 iterations are executed. Clear my point. Now I am commenting this and
I'm writing break of a. Uh compiler sorry this break is searching for what
now? A tell me now it what is a here? Label then it is going to upwards. Is it
a? No. Going to upwards. Is it a? Yes. Then terminate. Then where it will go
system dot out.print ln
double quotes after outer loop.
Save it. Control one. Compile. Tell me outer loop iteration two. Will you see?
I will not see. will not outer loop one, inner loop one directly
going after outer. Understand the purpose of the label. Right?
Point number one. What is a label? A label is an identifier.
It is a name to a
nameless blocks.
The nameless block can be
either. The nameless block can be either
just local block
just local block
open bracket closed bracket or
conditional blocks. If or switch
or loop blocks
while do while
If you need to provide name to any
nameless blocks
for accessing it from other places
or accessing it from inner blocks.
inner blocks
with break or continue.
We must use label.
The break or continue
can terminate
the current loop.
If you want to terminate
outer loop or block. If you want to terminate outer loop or
block execution from
inner loop or block we must use
label with the break or continue.
Syntax label colon
block.
Write error mark here. Break is searching for the label. Do you have any
label here? No. It go to this label and from here it is go out of Just
completed.
completed. Write down below program explains.
Below program explains
terminating
outer loop from inner loop
with the help of
label. Here
you need to write two arrow marks.
Okay. Uh look at here. If I write only break,
break will break. Break will break only. Current loop
terminated and go here. and execute rest of the statements available in the asset
and loop iterated with what outer loop. Understand?
This is outer loop and this is inner loop.
neatly you are right. Okay.
Uh inner loop terminated then continue with what? Outer loop
continue with outer loop.
Now
if I write break A, break is searching for the label A. Is
it A? No. Then go to A. Is it A? Yes.
Then it will terminate outer loop. Go outside outer loop and
continue rest to aromoxy. Right.
completed.
Okay, this is the story about label here. A I should write anything I can write. Anything you can write. Can I
write one? No. Can I write underscore?
No. Okay. If I write one, compiler throw invalid identifier. Not a statement.
Okay. If I write underscore com sorry if I write underscore compiler throw
error as of release 9 underscore is a keyword cannot be used. Can I write static here? No compiler throw error. Uh
can I write here A1? Yes I can write. Okay. Um now whenever
change the name I have to change accordingly at the break also. Okay. Undefined label error you will get if
you don't change. Uh tell me if I comment this one. No problem. Uh now tell here I'm writing uh dollar allowed
single dollar is allowed. Can I write here system?
No no what is system predefined class name. Predefined class name can be used
as a identifier. No problem. Okay. So refer identifier chapter once again and
apply the concepts here. With this we completed our
country flow statement chapter fully.
Yesterday I have uploaded rules also while dw rules for rules.
Did you notice that? Can I create two variables in the while loop I mean for
loop at a time? Yes, we can create.
Can I write multiple conditions? No, we can write multiple variables. We can
write multiple multiple increment decrementing but we can write only one condition. So that also test case I gave
please try to practice uh with this. We have done with our
chapter every point. Now pending is what your talent.
So practicing is pending. So how many more programs you practice, how you
practice, it's all in your hand.
Please go through once. Are all points covered?
Java 5, Java 14 new features I didn't cover. I will cover them. Basic control flow statements I completed as of now.
What is control flow statement? Why control flow statement? How many control flow statements? Purpose of each control
flow statement. If you study these four points automatically chapter will revised. All these four points I gave at
at one place in your beginning of the notes. Then we started exploring with working with if if else if else if
ladder problem with if else if else. Then we come to when to choose if else
if else and switch. Okay. If you wanted to write condition on number string enum
with a double equal to operator then go forward switch. If you want to write condition on not double equal to
operator either not equal to operator less than greater than operators then we
have to choose if else if you want to write condition on long data type float
data type double data type boolean data type our own class data type then you have to
use what if else you cannot use a switch because switch has a limitation working
with a switch case syntax and case and default Order. You have learned rules of
switch and case argument. You learn limitations of the switch. Switch can work only with int
car wrapper classes string enum and with a double equal to
operator. Exact comparison only. If you want then only switch can be used other purpose which cannot be used. Working
with while and its limitations. Okay. Nothing but loops. If you want execute zero to n number of times then we have
to use loop. while and its limitation. What are the limitation? Uh it's variable declaration condition
incrementing available at different places. There is a chance we may forgot to increment and it leads to what?
Infinite loop. Second second problem. The variable declared before loop is not
destroyed automatically. It is available after loop. Third problem after condition checking only logic executed.
I want execute at least one time. Then work. Then we have to move to do while and then for loop. For loop advantages,
its rules and execution flow. Then we discussed inner loop and its rules. When you develop inner loop, the rule is
what? The loop variable should not be same as outer variable. The variable
outer loop variable, inner loop variable names must be different. Okay. And next
transfer statements break continue return common rule and specific rule. What is the common rule? After break
continue return, we cannot place any statement directly. Specific rule break is allowed only in a switch or in loop.
Continue allowed only inside loop. Written is allowed inside a method or inside a constructor anywhere. Label its
usage rule. Next break continue with label. Next infinite loops compile time
error. Unreachable statement test cases while false. While true with break while
true with break is infinite loopa not infinite loopa not infinite loop because break will break the statement sample
programs entry questions everything covered now so it's a time you have to
practice now I want to share you one two websites here I want all the people
practice that website right
codingbat.com website name codingbat.com
codingbat.com here we have two things Java and Python
same programs are available Java and Python so daily you have to do warm up
there warm up one warm up warm up one. It has totally how many
programs? 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15. Oh my god, so many other warm up these many programs. By the time
these programs completed definitely your course will be completed. Why? We are very much fast in learning.
No. Okay. Tomorrow.
Okay. later become never if today you don't work
tomorrow if you say tomorrow I'll work tomorrow again you will have same mentality what do you say
tomorrow again tomorrow always that tomorrow will torture you
so today only you start today only you have to start work sir how to work sir open this question sleep
What is this question? uh the parameter week day is true. If it is a weak day
if you remember your childhood in maths there are two types of questions are
there? Two numbers is giving lg uk first class two numbers will give 1 + 2 how
much? Three 3 + 4 how much? 3 - 4 how much and addition subtraction focus the
same additions and subtractions will be given questions asked uh
word problems they are called with as what word problems assume two friends
are there first friend has a two chocolates second friend has a three chocolates totally how many chocolates
are there what you write what problem one chocolates available at friend 1 equal
to two chocolates available at a friend two equal to three total number of
chocolates total number means plus means total what five 2 + 3 five like that
word problems are there direct question will not be there jigj different order word problems are there codingbat.com is
a word problem based website okay here uh the question will be simple
but you know you have to analyze this question and what operator he is asking you to use. You should find out uh look
he's using not true false directly he's saying in the word what some technical I
mean English is using the parameter weak day
parameter weak day parameter and I should have me uh he is taking a method name as what sleep in method parame
method definition also you only giving you don't need to write anything in your system you can directly try here okay
there is a method called what sleep in who taking the parameter weekday and parameter what? Vacation. Okay. The
parameter weekday is true. Oh, true and boolean. Okay. First parameter name is
what? Week day of what type? Boolean. Boolean. Week day is true. If it is a
week day and Monday to Saturday also.
Okay. Now sorry sir. Monday to Friday. Okay. Monday to Friday. Next. And the
parameter parameter vacation is true. If we are on vacation,
we are on vacation means Sunday, Saturday, Sunday. Okay. We sleep in
happily sleep. If it is not a week day
or we are on vacation. Understand? If not a week day means true or false.
Not a week day. Week day is true. Not a week day is false. We are on vacation.
Vacation value also false. Understand? And if you send weekday
is false vacation true false true
vacation false or true whatever. Okay. Return true. If we sleep in uh look at
here the question not understood. Repeat once again. What is asking there are
there is a one method with two parameters. What the first parameter? Week day. Second parameter is what?
Vacation. Uh what is asking? I want you sleep. Sleep means what? Written true.
Not sleep means what? Written false. Okay. Week day and vacation both values.
What should I do? Return true if we sleep in. return true if we sleep in.
Okay, now I have to prepare inputs. Look at here. He's given some examples here.
Sleep in false. If I pass result should be what? True. Weekday
false. Weekday false and it is on it is on um
vac it is on not weekend and vacation. Either it is a naughty weekend or
vacation. What should I What should I false? Sorry. What should I pass? False. False. If both are false means what?
Sleep in a Okay, look at here. Return true. If we
sleep in we sleep in when if it is not a week day or we are on
vacation. The condition you are to follow here. Little difficult two to three times if you read you will
understand. Okay. If not weaken means false.
We are on vacation. R or we are on vacation also what? False. Okay. If both
are false then what we do? Sleep. Sleep means what? True. Now if it is a weekend
means true or vacation. True or vacation what
should I get? False. Weekend false we are on vacation then what again true
okay sir question understand not understand secondary but we observe here what is asking true or true I want true
or false I want false or true I want what true then from the sleeping method
I should write logic based on the given values I should generate true and false
and return okay now that point Understand? False, false. I want true. Which
operator I have to use?
True, false, false, false, true, true.
Uh, you are working on which operator? Boolean. Boolean operator and generate
boolean value. What operators work on boolean data types and generate boolean value?
Relational operator work on boolean value. No.
Logical operators work on boolean value. Yes.
Bitwise operators also work on boolean value. Here I should use logical operators. Bitwise operators. How many
logical operators are there? Three. double n double r not false and
false or false.
Which are which operator I have to use? XR. If both operants are same true. If
operants are opposite false
here observe false or true what the value coming
true but actually what should expect here false. Oh my god bra.
Which operator I have to use? XR will return true if both are true or both are false.
Both operators are false. False.
Huh? XR. Both operators are false. False.
You written wrong seems to be. Check.
return. I have to return written weekday and vacation
both are false. I should return true. True. False. I should return false.
False. True. I should return what? True.
Which operator? If I use XR operator cap,
uh both true true, right? Both false also true.
False false true XR false result is false
uh false true also true false only will come but he's he's asking for true
Second one, you should write one condition, not multiple conditions.
That one condition should match all all all logics.
Come on. Come on. Think.
Read question again. The parameter weekend is true if it is a week day.
Okay. The parameter vacation is true
if you are on vacation.
Okay. Now, okay. When we sleep in
not weekend not weekend
not weekend or
or on vacation
what is sending inputs I don't care you focus Fus on the condition. What is asking?
We sleep in. We sleep in a truna when
not a weekend. Not week or vacation. Vacation semicolarly
is giving the input. Why you are overthinking?
He clearly gave the condition. But from the sleeping method, what should I
return? True. When not a weak day. How can I say it is a
weak day? When is it not a weak day? Apply not operator.
Not a week day or what? Vacation return. Kum. Let's see. Will it work?
All the conditions go. All correct.
Don't think too much. He has given a clear question. We sleep in. We sleep in
means in Java. True. When if it is not a
week day, how can I say not a weekday in Java? Not a weekday.
Or how can I say R? Vacation. Vacation.
Oh.
Overinking create the health issues. Understood? Don't think too much.
Return true. If you are sleeping, when sleeping, if it is not week, not week
day or we are on vacation or vacation. Let's see what is is a solution.
He also given logic. Now is a solution. What? Wow. He also written same not weekday or
vacation return true return false heir
he's a paid developer already this r operator generating true
false why should write if else again
already false not weekday or vacation already generated truth
when I should use if this if or else block. If this condition is not if this
condition generate true or false based on the true I want return one string.
Based on the true I want return one number. Suppose if the given value even
return string saying number is even else number is odd then I should use what? If
else. Do you remember turnary operator I have used? If a less than five return true
return false. Will I use a turnary operator or if else condition? No. Direct less than five because less than
operate itself is generating true or false. Are you getting brain
mobile?
Repeat again. When should I use if else for returning the value? Based on the
condition you want to return other than boolean value either string or number or
object then if else I have to use. If the method return type is boolean
already expression is generating boolean why should I use if else that is a bad programming pressure programming.
If you want to prove yourself as an experienced person in the company try to avoid writing so many lines of code
unnecessary write complete the code in single line. So you have to apply your
ba ba buddhi both. Okay. Uh now what you write not weekend or vacation. See
question will be lengthy don't read entire question where is my condition if it is not not weakened okay not means
not operator or means are operator convert English to Java cut understand
how to work shall we try one more question Next. Where are you?
Next. Okay. Next.
Read. Monkey. Trouble. Monkey is troubling you. Come on. We have two
monkeys. Two monkeys. And how many parameters? A and B
monkey name. First monkey name is A. Second monkey name B. A two monkeys are there. Two parameters. Okay. And the
parameters A smile B smile. Oh, monkeys are also smiling.
Hey, you know monkey also will smile. You are a monkey. No,
don't know. You are a monkey and B monkey. Okay, both are smile.
A smile and B smile indicate if each is smiling. Oh, A smile true. B smile true.
Both are true. We are in trouble. Tell me there are so
many monkeys are going. Every day if you observe some bombs are blasting. No. Why? Because of monkeys are coming. Now
tell me now if one monkey got angry, we are in trouble. Now one monkey silent
but other monkey got angry. It is attack you. Huh? Uh, we are in trouble if they
are both they are both smiling or neither of them
is smiling. Both are smiling also trouble. Neither of them smiling is not
smiling also trouble. And you true. True.
What you get? We are in trouble. We are in trouble.
We are in trouble means what? True now true false false
don't show your talent. According to question you have to get answer. Read again. We are in trouble if they both
smiling. Trouble means what? True. If neither of them smiling. True. Neither
of them means what? False. False. True. True. Sorry. True. True also.
Trouble. True. False. False also trouble. True.
True. Are you in trouble? Yes. Means what? True. Are you not in
trouble? Listen. Are you in?
I am asking a question. Are you in trouble? Yes means what? True. Are you
in trouble? No. False. What I'm saying? We are in trouble. We are in trouble. Means what you should return? True. Then
if both are smiling sir both are smiling why I'm in trouble sir none of your business again question answer they ask
the question we have to generate we are in trouble don't understand it in English meaning understand in java
what is asking we are in trouble if they are both smiling both smiling and true
true okay neither of them smiling false also true Oh, which operator I have to
use? Uhhuh. Return true. If we are in trouble, which operator I have to use?
XR program.
Many times I told you Java is a concept based and memory based programming
language. If you don't remember concept, if you don't remember memory, you will fail in Java. operators, control flow
statements, concept based programming, object oriented programming, concept and
memory based programming, memory if you ignore it will torture you. Now tell me
what question I have to write. What logic I should write? If else or directly return? Directly written. If
else required or not required, not required return. What you write? A smile. Huh?
Cap cap cap be smile. Semicolon.
Hey, why you saying go
compile the matters bracket missing delete? Go
check. All are failed.
Huh? not operate. Why not operate?
Smelling mist right?
Why not exile? True and true. True and true.
Okay. Okay. Okay. True and true. False. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. What I have to
apply? No. Correct. Correct. Correct. You are expert than me.
Uh life. So I I I remember true. True. True. False. False. True. Wrong answer.
Now if both are same returns what? False. Opposite returns what? True. So if you don't remember truth table,
you'll get wrong answer. Okay. Correct. Your point is correct.
False. False is false. Thank you. Correct. A smile and B smile both are
same returns what? False. We need to convert to true. We
are right. Not understand which concept? How to read the question? Understand? Uh
we are in trouble if they are both smiling or if neither of them smiling.
That means both true I should return true. Both false I should return false. True. If true or false, false. Then
which operator I have to use? Not and XR. Okay. Shall we try one more
question? Next.
I don't read question. You only read question. You only answer question
given two int values. Okay. Return their sum. Okay. And which operator I have to
use now? Plus. Unless the two values are same then
return double.
Same sum
to use if else I have to use operators. Which operators
for condition purpose? Validation operator. Calculation purpose.
calculation operator. So complete operators and control flow statements I have to use. If
a equal to equal to b what return a + b
else
unless the two values are same means unless
If both are equal, what should I return? Double sum. Sum double sum. Okay.
English masters. Okay. Uh what do you write now? Double sum
into two. Uh return a plus. Cor.
Wow. Super. All are okay. So that's why English also very important unless
meaning word understand if you are not good at English you cannot answer the question
that's why English also that's why I told you daily 15 minutes for typing
half an hour for 45 minutes for English 15 minutes listening 15 minutes writing
15 minutes speaking 15 minutes reading read listen write all
speak speaking also 15 minutes. So if you don't practice all you will miss English also. Hope you all understand
how to work like this. Uh now like this there are so many questions are there for you to practice practice.
This is a word based. Okay. Given an int n written the absolute difference
between end and 21 except written double absolute difference if n is over 21. So
like this slowly slowly you have to work out uh each question will take minimum
five minutes say suppose okay per day can you minimum work for five questions
five questions at least five questions okay no sir I cannot enter here if you
unable to write the code solution is also there but don't try for solution faster
read question not understand go to solution in the interview will give solution to
You should train your brain. You should train your brain to analyze
the solution. Okay. After completing all questions available in the codingbad.com
and another website also there prepinstar.com.
What are the website? Prepinstar.com. Scroll down and continue to prepinstar.
Don't go for prime. Not required. already you are a prime member of Nariti
don't be prime member of multiple people don't waste your father money whose money
uh no sir I want to be prime member get a job then pay from yourself after
getting job why I need to pay then why you are paying your father money uh now freely they have provided some
knowledge that much sufficient to get the job continue to prepinstar.com open this website
scroll down there don't use
uh look at there companies programming off campus CS subject interview
preparation aptitude you know as a student always you are doing one mistake
what is that job job hey without subject how can I get job fellow
don't get to your mind job first you have to get mind only knowledge programming you should have confidence
frequently asked questions are important entry question study and go to interview you'll not get job don't try
everything I learn operator s everything I remember control flow statements are everything I remember eraser everything
I remember give me program I am able to write the program then think about
campus interviews placements then you want to spend the money for the getting job by joining one I know
institute or website for The placement support for placement assistance when you joining for the course I mean when
you join one institute when not for training for what placement already nar
we join for training again for placement when you are to join only after you are
thoroughly ready for the job with the complete subject when you are to join for placement not immediately first you
try with yourself have a good network with your friends in Amir P as a offline students or
online students whoever have a good friendship with the friends you have to always discuss mama any job openings you
are finding along with the subject you also should have connections with your friends with and seniors how to get the
job uh if I share okay this student got the job immediately you have to have a
friendship with him sir please accept me as your friend and if in your company you have any openings please let me know
definitely every year New openings will be there. Now every 6 months new openings will be there. So just have a
contact with them. Try to get information from them to get the new jobs.
So you have to improve along with your course. You should also start searching for the jobs with your contacts. Then
daily you have to improve your programming knowledge by practicing this kind of websites. Whenever you find
off-campus placements or on campus placements don't immediately click on don't join without you have confidence
don't join then click on this programming and also don't search for the interview questions without you
practice last class MCQ questions we practice because we completed chapter I know
everything let me try my luck uh same way now second now we are preparing the
second round all people are ready with the first round what the first round what is the output what is the output what is the output What the second
round? Read the word problem and you should understand the algorithm. Step
one, step two, step three, step four. Algorithm. Here I should apply equal to operator. Here I should apply not equal
to operator. Here I should apply plus operator. Here I should plus into operator. So like what are the operators
I apply? Which conditional operational statements I apply? That clarity algorithm should come to your brain.
That is called write a program. First one is what? What is the output of
the program? That level we pass. That is a fresher level, beginner level. Now we are coming to intermediate level.
Intermediate level means what? Write a program. For write a program, I'm giving two
websites. One is codingbad.com. First you try there. Second, now you have to
try with this website. This is prepinstar.com. These two websites five programs from coding bad two programs or
three programs from prepar daily minimum five to seven programs seven programs
you have target don't practice 10 programs seven sufficient seven programs you try to practice per day answer seven
and my brain will be blasted okay minimum five minimum five maximum your capacity that is intermediate once these
two websites are completed then we'll get full warm up with your weapon You learn how to use.
Okay. Now is the time main match starts. First you are taking coaching. Okay. Now
then we are going for practice. Next. Okay. Now main match IPL. Okay. Main
match is hacker rank lead code. Hacker rank is again beginner level,
intermediate level and elite code is expert level. Once you solve the questions from the lead code uh then no
one will stop you. Oh sir lead code to solve the questions data structures and algorithms are required sir that's why
that is advanced level that we will go and touch lit code not now after
collections chapter complete meanwhile small small programs you can
try in the lead code also but don't touch hacker rank lead code now first 10
to 15 days you practice the questions available in codingbat and prepenstar.com okay open top 100
questions or top 500 questions Anything is same link will come. Okay. Then go down.
Go down. Look. Uh here we have questions in three languages or four languages
they have given. Hey C, C++, Java, Python. And now realize
every day I'm saying minimum two languages knowledge you must have. What the now trending languages? Java,
Python. uh first you work with Java also have try to get awareness on Python
positive or even number can you write a program even or odd number can you write a
program sum of first unnatural numbers first what is the natural number
I don't know I don't know baba what is a positive number means I know
zero left side lesser than zero negative 0 greater than positive. Oh, I should
write if number less than zero even number else
zero number less than zero negative number else
positive number okay I understood even or odd if the number divided if I
divided by two and remainder is zero even number else odd number uh sum of
first and natural numbers natural number means what I don't know okay
sum of First two n natural numbers sum of n natural numbers what the difference between these two questions as first of
all what is a natural number I don't know then click on Java because you know Java syntax now go down
he has given explanation given an integer input of n the
objective is to find sum of all the natural numbers until the given input
integer to do so we can use a Different approaches to write the Java code. Some
uh some much methods are mentioned below. You know interviewers nowadays
asking if you write the logic in one approach he's asking can you try another
approach? If you write second approach again he'll say can you try one more approach? Third approach if you say then
he's satisfied but still we will ask can you try another approach? Sorry I know only three approaches. If you keep on
giving one more approach, one more approach, he will not go to the another example. Then he will not find the time
to ask many questions. That's why keep on don't give answers on the same question. Maximum two or three answers.
After that directly say I'm not aware this much only. Okay. Now uh now three
options there by using for loop using formula for sum of n terms and using
recussion. There are three approaches are there. We will discuss and learn more about mentioned method in the
section below. Okay. Method one, method two, method three is given explanation also. Okay. So if you cannot if you are
unable to write the code, click on the Java part and read the part and check the logic and write the code. Okay. Now
right. So like this you have to try first on number based programs. All these are number based programs.
And the next down if you come still number based expressions HCF LCM greater
of most division binary to decimal conversion. Did you remember I explained binary to decimal conversion
mathematically. Now programmatical how to write a code octal to decimal and extra decimal to decimal and again
reverse conversion permutation combination programs. Okay these are little algebra based ma mathematical
expressions based and then recursion based. What is a recussion? Calling a method inside the same method is called
what? Recussion. I have a method with 10 lines. Among
these 10 lines, middle four lines only return repeatedly. I want execute. What should I use? Loop. Loop. Loop. I have
method with 10 lines. In the 10 lines, middle three lines I want execute repeatedly. What I should use? Loop. All
10 lines I want execute repeatedly. Then I have to write method. method call
in the same method. First 10 lines executed again I want execute 10 lines
after all 10 lines end of the method same method you call M1 parenthesis again iterated again iterated again
iterated when I should call this M1 method repeatedly by writing one condition. So that is called calling a
method in its own body is called what? Recussion. Okay. Uh that point is called
recursion. Recussion based logic they have explained. Okay. Power of number power of number largest element in an
array. Right? They have given some explanation you can follow.
Uh next here still they are giving on okay important quotes are related to arrays. arrays we have not fully learned
some part I have already explained if the knowledge is sufficient for you you can work on that okay now so hope you
will start work on this that's website also okay now so if you don't work you
are the loser buddy so you have to work yourself to improve your knowledge so
two websites you have to follow preppingstar.com and codingbat.com
both websites I am sharing so show your talent No.
How much effectively use your time? It is in your hand.
Okay. Two websites I shared. Click on this. Click on this. Okay. Now right coming classes we will also work with
hacker rank and lead code also. Okay done with this we completed logical
programming basics and concepts.
Uh now shall we start
object oriented programming now waiting s
this mouse again got flopped. So this is our syllabus
Java fundamentals first 25 topics successfully completed and next we went
to the logical programming operators control flow statements arrays arrays
basics I explained more deep programming to understand first you should have a knowledge on uh what do you call object
oriented programming okay because array is also object uh next algorithms there
are two algorithms are there searching algorithm and sorting algorithms searching sort Starting algorithms you will understand only after completing
arrays. 100 plus logical programs uh logical programs, number based programs,
character based programs, pattern based programs, array based programs, searching and sorting algorithms. Uh
number based program few examples I explained character based program finding the character what do you call
consonant or okay few programs explain pattern program few programs I explained. Now with this basic knowledge
now it is your turn to explore more examples. For that I have shared a websites and next in these operators
control flow statements arrays we have Java 5 version new features 7 version new features 8 version new features 14
version 15 version new features are there those new features you cannot understand at the basic level end of
core Java only you can understand at the time I'm going to cover all features start from Java 5 onwards Java 22 latest
version is what uh up to Java 22 what are the new features given all one by
one list I will give and explain clear my point so with this we completed logical programming unit two also now we
are moving to unit three object oriented program are ready uh your friends who
are sleeping in the home saying that I am IT background operators control flow statements everything I know I joined
object oriented programming purpose he didn't start so I don't come to the class please send message now them
now open website I mean WhatsApp send message s started object oriented programming
come to the class let's start object oriented programming
and image call what should we learn as part of object oriented programming
you want object oriented programming college style object oriented programming HK style
HK style Sir I will torture you
will cry like anything you will only ask me sir enough sir please stop sir okay
HK style is nothing but high techity style in project what is the way we use
object oriented programming we will learn that way and you accepted or not it is a true I am specialist of object
oriented programming okay uh even many faculties also and object-oriented
programming from me and they come directly to the class also your college lecturers working employees and amate
faculties also after I come to the online many faculties are felt so happy
finally he came to online let me get all these secrets slowly slowly if you started reading
your hostile friends notes all points what we discussed everything will be there in their notes but not up to the
level of what we discussed okay no problem and now it's the time you have to Start explore the points more
interested away. Your Java started now.
Last 45 days it is not Java. Last 45 days programming language maths. The
Java is meant for developing business applications, internet applications, business
applications. And this business applications accessible via internet. Core Java is meant for developing
business applications, complete application. Advanced Java meant for accessing this business application via
internet. So core Java is the base for the entire Java. Next coming one month I
can say next coming one month how much you are more focused and learn that much
easily you can crack the interviews either first round, second round, third round and easily you can develop the
projects in the company also. Okay, that's why this one month is very very important start from today. So please
focus fully. Uh now let's start object oriented programming I divided not some micros system not air
ped okay I divided into nine parts one more how many parts nine first one
basics okay as part of basics you are learning what is a class what is a object what is
a variable method constructor block in our classes creating real world objects
in programming These nine topics are called what? Object orient sorry eight topics uh
these eight topics are called what? Object oriented programming basics.
Sir listen carefully. Objectoriented programming means these nine topics
in your colleges. People has given wrong thought to you. Object oriented programming means encapsulation,
inheritance, polymorphism. No. Hey, encapsulation, in errors,
polymorphism, abstraction, not object- oriented programming. They are object-oriented programming principles.
They are the principles, suggestions. What the meaning of object- oriented programming? These three topics are
object- oriented programming. Creating real world object in the programming world by using class, object, instance.
Class means variables, methods, constructor, block, inner class all comes under class. Object means real
world thing what you are seeing. Instance means one copy memory from the class. So these three topics are object
oriented programming. Understand? Tell me did we start object oriented programming?
Encapsulation not started. Inheritance not not started. Abstraction not started. You feel object- oriented
programming not started. Namaskar above. Okay. Encapsulation, inherence, polymorphism are principles. They are
just additional topics, not programming topics. Suppose you want to prepare chicken curry t-shirt
what are you doing buddy watching mobile first you break that mobile ra so that
you will get the success in your life really I'm telling stay away from the
smart mobile for this next one month so that you will be fully focused on the subject learning if you have a smart
mobile with you really I'm saying in all batches I used to Smart mobile drop at your home. Ask your
father to buy one dab phone. Da phone you know small 1,000 rupees mobile
keypad mobile. Okay. You need mobile now only for communicate with your parents for money purpose and
smart mobile not required. I'm telling you till Java complete at least core Java completed you stay away from the
smart mobile. Now come back. You want to prepare chicken curry. What
you required? Masala. Masala important. No.
Prepare masala. Eat it. Chicken ready. That is what? Encapsulation. Masala
encapsulation. Okay. Uh lemon. Lemon. You are adding now. Lemon inheritance.
Extra extra you know flavor. And next. And now spicier non-spicier
that is what? Polymorphism. How this curry prepared? None of your business. Abstraction.
Understand my point. How it is prepared? Right? I prepared already. You eat it. That is called what? Abstraction. So
encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction are the last
extra concept we are adding for extra taste purpose. But actual program is
what? class, variables, methods, constructor, block, inner class. These concepts are called what? Basics, object
oriented programming. The wrong thought you have in your mind, please remove it. If any of your friends say or
programming not started, slap them below. Class is the programming, object is the programming, variable is the
programming. Okay, clear my point. Uh so the fourth level we are going while developing these three approaches, we
are just focusing on air amirate level learning, object- oriented programming. But there are some problems are there.
Those problems to solve we are applying principles. Encapsulation,
inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction, super keyword, variable hiding, method hiding. Already we learn variable,
variable hiding. One topic already learn method here. Method hiding. Already we learn method here. Method of overriding.
Method overloading. Some extra points. Super keyword. So many points are coming. Okay. And next after completing
these four topics your objectoriented programming fully completed in Java 5
version some enhancements are given in Java 8 version some new enhancements are
given those Java 5 8 and 10 also Java 8 Java 5 8 10 new features you have to
learn and next very very important once you develop the project you have to apply solid principles have you heard
these what there are two principles principles are there objectoriented programming principles and second one is
what solid s o l solid principles okay that solid principles we call them as
what coupling and cohesion all faculties or all students are teaching and learning only object-oriented
programming per that's all just basic level but we are taking this object- oriented programming at project level by
applying what coupling coision and their types nothing but solid principles also we we are going to learn. Okay. Uh next
next point uh after understanding all these six parts then we have to develop
the project. Now single project by showing all these features I designed
who designed I designed one architecture called what LCP architecture. It is not
some micro systemystem given or it is not any other person third party vendor given. It is my own designed
architecture. That's why I'm telling I am specialist in object- oriented programming. Once you enter into company
one day or one minute also you don't feel difficult to handle the projects in the company because of the special
architecture called LCRP architecture. Hey whichever uh next then finally after
understanding this LCP architecture and reflection API then we will start understanding the complete project
sample project development not one multiple projects we are developing. I will develop one project. We together
develop one project. You only develop one project. More two project assignments. I will give five projects
we are going to develop. Then anybody say object- oriented programming. Simple. Okay. Now that feeling you will
get then by using all oop concepts and last complete list of interview questions we are going to learn from
this topic. So that any interview you can pass easily.
Are ready for this full syllabus? have that patency to learn. Yes sir. Or you want me to
ka means I'll also do the ka ka full knowledger full knowledge. Super right
on this points.
Uh we have learned full knowledge on object oriented programming. Now we are targeting full knowledge on object
oriented programming also.
solid and guty principles. No, not that a hard solid. Okay, solid meaning is
different.
May
is it a control flow statement chapra?
Next chapter. Add the continuation number.
What is
number? You follow your number. Okay. I didn't
remember the chapter number. You follow your number.
completed. Huh?
Have written the solid principles.
Roco I broke.
Earlier before this uh Windows 11, Windows 10, Windows 8, Paint is
providing bright color. Okay. Now they made it as a very light
color. I don't know why. Even I give full solid bright here. Still it is coming light color.
Who handled this paint? You know, such a
right.
Now tell me first point what is object oriented programming?
First point what is object oriented programming? Okay. Do you have a word? Whoops.
Object oriented programming. What? Oops. Now shortcut. What you call? Oops. Oops.
The what is this? Object.
Oops. Now oops form O P. S O stands for object. Oriented
P principle programming. Yes S styler.
A style. Object oriented programming. S stands
for styler. Okay. Nice. Super. Uh S stands for system,
structure, semantics, style. Wow.
Okay. There is no yes. Only we have three. Oop. Then why yes came sir? Easy
pronunciation. Come on pronounce all people. Oop.
Okay. Now gas is holding inside. Okay. Air holding inside. Ah. Oops. Okay. So
pronunciation is easy that's why people has used in that and listen if you want to provide s there are two ses are there
some people use smallest some people use a capitalist capital S is used then you
should say system object oriented programming system what the meaning of system a system is a
collection of things working together to perform one operation for example you take computer is a system monitor CPU
keyboard mouse hard disk RAM all are working together to complete our tasks.
Am I right? Uh similarly now system means objectoriented programming system
class object encapsulation inheritance polymorphism abstraction coupling
cohesion all these concepts are working together to create one real world object in the programming world. That's why all
these concepts together we can call it as what system. So if you wanted to
write objectoriented programming system then capital S you have to write if
write small s oops small s then full form is object oriented programming then
why you are writing SSR for easy pronunciation purpose okay now right clear my point so there
is no small s or there is no capital S we have only one thing what is
Open.
One second. One second. Huh?
Okay. The first point here as part of the object oriented programming basics we have to learn what is whoop, why,
what is an object, what is the meaning of creating a real world object in the programming world, why should we bring
real world object to the programming world? programming elements to bring object to the programming world. Develop
a sample project using class variables, methods, instances. Okay. And method and
types of methods. All these topics comes under object- oriented programming basics. Okay. First point we have to
understand what is the abbreviation of whoop. The abbreviation of whoop is
object oriented programming. We don't have a word called whoops. Whoops. In
programming word the word abbreviate the wrong abbreviation created by industry for the word oopsies. Some people call
it as objectoriented programming system. Okay. Accepted. Okay. And some people
say structure some people say synopsis. Some people say style. Uh those are all
extra words. Structure or synopsis style. That is wrong. Okay. All above abbreviations are wrong. There is no
meaning for the character S in oops. So oops also stands for object- oriented
programming only. Clear the first point. Uh second tell me what is oop? Whoop is
a object oriented programming. What is object oriented programming? Uh is it a
language? What is whoop? Is it a language? No.
What is whoop? Is it a technology? That's a uh is it a technique?
So when I can call something is a language. Java is a language. Python is a
language. JavaScript is a language. Net C#.NET is a language. PHP is a language.
What is a language? No. Okay. Language is nothing but
something. Language is nothing but something that provides syntaxes and
semantics for developing a program is called what? Language. Uh repeat repeat
once again. Telugu is a language. It providing letters, words, grammar for I
mean grammar structure for speak for preparing sentences and speaking to
other people. So we call it as what? Speaking language. So what is a programming language? Uh if you want to
call something is a programming language. Something that provides syntaxes and semantics. Syntaxes means
the structure of the program. Semantics means rules to follow to write a program. Something that provides
syntaxes and semantics for developing one program to perform mathematical or
business operations is called what? Language is object- oriented programming
providing any syntaxes and semantics? No. So can you call it as a language? No. Next. What is a technology? C is
only language. C++ only language. Java is a language and technology. Python is
a language and technology. PHP language and technology. So why we can call something is a technology? Something
that provide predefined library huge amount of predefined library rich set of
predefined library for developing programs easily
spastly easily and fastly then we call it as what technology. Tell me Java
provides so many predefined library functions or not. Yes. Python also provides so much predefined library or
not? Yes. Java provided so much of predefined library for developing enterprise application. Python has
provided so much of predefined library for developing data science, machine learning and AI applications.
So Java and Python are called language and also called technology. Is oop
providing any predefined library for us? No. Then can you call them as a technology? No. Then what VO providing?
Whoop is providing suggestions. Follow these steps to create real world
object in the programming world as part of your business. Hey, follow these steps provide security to data. Follow
these steps for extending the functionality. Follow these steps to provide extra functionality. Okay, more
functionality to the same operation. Follow these steps to hide the complete implementation details of your object.
So it is providing suggestions for creating real world objects in the programming world. That's why object
oriented programming is called what technique. It is a one style of writing
program for creating real world object in the programming world. Everyone understand? Uh now tell me what is a
oop? Oop is not a language. Oop is not a technique. Oop technology. Whoop is a
technique. So objectoriented programming is a one programming paradigm. It is a
one style of writing program for creating real world objects in the programming world. Clear my point? So
object oriented programming is a one programming style. It is about programming paradigm. Paradm is nothing
but style. So why objectoriented programming? Object- oriented
programming meant for three purposes. three purposes. Number one, creating real world object in the programming.
Number two, achieve security to the object data. I have data, I have to provide security. Next, achieve dynamic
binding. Binding means connecting. Connecting between objects communication. We have minimum two
objects. Number one, object. Number two, user. Suppose you take mobile. Mobile is
a object. And who are you? User object. You take SIM. Sim is a object. Who is
the user object to the SIM? Mobile. SIM is a object. Mobile is the user. Mobile
is the object. Customer is the user. So minimum how many objects are there?
Two objects. ATM is a object. Who is the user? Customer. ATM card is a object.
Who is the user? ATM. Are you following my point? Uh computer is a object. I am
the user. Pen drive is a object. Who is the user? computer. Are you following?
So every if you consider any scenario in that scenario there are two objects are
there. The operations providing object and the operations using object business
object user object. I need to create a communication between these two objects. How to communication? How to create the
communication? That is also object- oriented programming only telling. So what is object- oriented programming?
Oop is a technique or a programming methodology. It provides a set of suggestions for
creating real world object in the programming world by achieving security and dynamic binding. Why we use object-
oriented programming to develop business applications by creating real world
objects in the programming world by achieving security to the object data by achieving dynamic binding between
objects communication. We will develop object- oriented programming. Sir, before object- oriented programming, we
have structured programming language C. By using C, can I store data? Yes. Can I
perform operations? Yes. Can I validate the data? Yes. Whatever you can do by
using object- oriented programming. Everything you can do by using C structured programming. But the problem
here is there is no security to the data. There is no dynamic binding between the
objects. The first step I can do I can create real world objects in the programming world by using a concept
called strruct. You know struct by using strruct concept. People who know C language
using strruct concept I can develop real world object. Struct student
employee strruct bank account I can create. But the problem is the struct
data whatever you store for the student or employee bank account other programmer can access directly there is
no safety there is no security okay other people can directly access when
other people directly accessing in the business is it okay ATM machine is there you directly go open the door take the
money possible or not possible not possible if you develop that ATM software by using C language kam anybody
can go and take the money directly put in the pocket and go but if you develop by using Java not possible there is some
validations we have to provide who are you I'm the customer prove it take my card take my pin number check my balance
okay now how much money you want complete ATM money hey no no how much
available in your balance that much only you can take this kind of checkings and all we can do by using object oriented
programming understand my point right tell me whatever Whatever we are learning next coming 15 days or 20 days this all the
knowledge you are gaining for Java for all object oriented programming languages
Java Python.net Net, PHP everything is what? Same. What is changing from one
language to another language? Syntaxes. In Java, we create class in one way. In Python in another way. In Java, we
create variable in one way, Python in another way. So only the syntax is changing. But the concept is same.
Okay. Now shall we start from tomorrow? Yeah. I don't want to give notes from tomorrow.
Time waste. I will share the notes. No problem now.
If you are writing notes, it takes lot of time. Today whatever I have explained these slides, I'll upload to the Google
classroom. From there you write notes. After going to room compulsory you have to f the notes. Anyway slides uploaded.
Let me relax then your life will be relaxed. Up to now I dictate the notes
because everything is new to you. From now onwards new points, unknown points both will come. So I'm expecting you
people to prepare the notes at home. Okay, thank you. That's all for today class.
I'll upload these two slides. Please try to copy and come tomorrow.

