ript


Okay, good morning everyone. So last class we have started
understanding object- oriented programming, right? What are the points we have completed in object- oriented
programming? First one we have learned what is oop. Then we learn why. Then we
learn Punjab National Bank pass book.
Someone lost open
Class.
misters.
So what is why V? Uh next what we discussed?
Huh? What is an object or you can say uh what can we do by
using object oriented programming or what is
the what are the targets of I can say what is the main target of
object oriented programming. Now what is a object oriented programming? It is a programming paradigm. It is a new style
of writing a program. Second, why book for developing business applications. As
part of business applications development, what is our main target?
Uh creating real world object in the programming world providing security to object data. The next what is the main
target? Okay, creating real world object. Then we discussed what is an object? What is an object? object is a
real world thing which we can see and use. Uh next
why should we
create object or you can say real world object in programming world because in
the object oriented programming for building the uh business application in
real world we perform every operation as part of business for one object. In
programming world also we have to perform the operation for the same object. So that's why first of all we
have to create object. Okay. Then what is the meaning of
object oriented?
What the meaning of object oriented programming? Writing a program or developing a program around one object
is called object- oriented program. Then tell me what are the okay what
should we consider to develop
to develop a program in Java or in object oriented program.
What should be considered to develop a program in Java? object and it's a data.
Whereas what should we consider to develop a program in Java and in C? In
Java what should we consider object uh in uh in C what should we
consider? I can say in C. So mouse is torturing
in C or Python. Okay. Python also same concept. In Python also we don't
consider object. In Python we consider only function. Okay. Uh in Java we
consider what? Object. In C or in Python we consider operation. What operation I
have to implement? Function we have to consider. Then next tell me what we discussed next what the target of
object- oriented programming representing real world object in programming words by storing its data by
storing its data. Uh now tell me what are the building blocks of next what you
have to understand what are the uh sorry
what are the programming elements? What are the programming elements?
provided by Java for creating
real world object in programming world
okay tomorrow onwards don't take chairs from there understand
did you understand don't take chairs from there if you while taking this is not a wall this is a false ceiling you
will break
I didn't ask you to start late. Mama able to hear
what the meaning of this huh had a bad attitude and
So boys here so many empty chairs are here. Okay. If you want to sit only last
take one chair pull there and go and sit and sleep. No problem. Okay. So don't take chairs when admin arrange
the chairs aside means those chairs are not meant for using by you. Clear? Uh so
take these chairs empty chairs whatever available here. Take the chair and wherever you want you go and sit. No
problem. Uh what are the programming elements provided by Java for creating
real world object in programming world? How many are there? Tell me what are there
again like this one? What happened to all people? Right? Okay.
Everyone moving head like this only earlier know students was not like this.
Okay. So generation
generation generation lot of changes. Huh. Okay. Done. And tell me what are the programming elements? First one is
what? Module package class variable block
constructor method inner classes. Okay. Now what are the purpose of those?
What is the purpose of eight programming elements? Module meant
for grouping packages. Package is meant for grouping classes. Class is meant for
grouping variables, methods, block, constructor, inner class and also meant for representing real world object in
the programming. Variable is meant for providing memory to store data. Blocks
and constructors are meant for writing what logic? Initialization logic. Blocks and blocks
and constructors are meant for developing initialization logic to store values in variables. Variables are
fields are fields. Variables means
late coming and going last chairs and enjoying. Now all right. What are
fields? Fields means class level variables. variables means method level variables. Okay. Then next block
constructor meant for developing initialization logic to store values inside fields. Uh next methods are meant
for developing business logic to perform operations of the object. Uh next inner
inner classes are meant for representing inner object of outer object. Uh next
what else we discussed? Next what you discussed
steps to develop real world object in programming. How many steps are there? Eight. Start from
storing to printing. Eight steps. What the first step? Identify real world object. Create it by using class.
Identify its properties created by using fields. Identify when those properties
must be initialized. and define blocks constructor and setter
method. Setter method. Uh next uh next
step what define okay find its operations define methods. Uh last
identify or find inner object of this object and create them by using inner class. Uh next by writing class what is
ready? Oh yeah,
blindly don't go to last chair. Okay, find empty chairs. Any empty chairs in first row, second row, third row, then
occupy the chair. Okay, today I should teach you where to sit, how to sit also. No problem. Uh now
next up in user class, I told you every object has two objects. Number one
development object, development class and then user logic class. In user object create the instance one per each
object separately. Then initialize that object with the values of this user and
finally print that values. Totally how many steps are there? Eight steps.
Hey
I'm calling
group.
Okay. Okay. So, steps to develop real world
object understood. Then we started writing uh developing a program
to create real world object
in programming. Why today class strength is because yesterday I asked you to give feedback.
Huh? Oh, today festival uh Good Friday
festival that's why.
Okay. Uh now these are the 11 points we are trying to understand.
Okay. Now I think we yesterday we are pinning with
the program. Let me come
Okay, first we develop bank account, then we develop bank on Java. First up is what? Create two instances and then
initializing them. Uh now what is the yesterday I explained you? Let me also
add the points.
What is the meaning of account one dot balance to a to the compiler
and JVM? What is the meaning of account one balance to the compiler and JVM?
What compiler do? What JVM will do?
Uh tell me what is the meaning of account one.balance to the compiler and
JV compiler search for balance.
Balance. What is balance? Variable. Variable has
two things. Number one declaration. Number two memory. Uh compiler search for balance. variable declaration in
account one class and it will go here to the bank account class and checking balance variable available available.
JVM search for balance variable declaration of memory.
JVM access the balance variable memory from account one pointing object. Is
everyone understand? So compiler search for balance variable declaration in
account one class. JVM access the memory from the account one pointing object. So
that is the important point you have to know. Yesterday I taken screenshot of
this file. Uh look at here. So what is the meaning of these two statements?
Understand practically one more time. When you write
when you write account one dotbalance compiler software searching for
some compiler software searching for account one variable in account one left side or right side left side bank
account class. It will go to bank account class searching for are you balanced? No. Are you balanced? No. Are
you balanced? No. Are you are you? Uh yes. Okay. Then cello compile successfully and one second balance
variable is found. Then second verifying is this value can be stored in the balance variable. Then is verifying the
type of the balance is double. In the double variable int value can be stored. Yes. Compile job is completed. Compile
successfully. Then who is coming next? JVM. What JVM job? JVM searching for
uh JVM searching for balance variable memory in which account one object.
Account one object and which side? Left side or right side? Right side. Uh
right side. Right side. Right side. Uh what is this object reference? 10 10. It
will go to 10 10 object to the balance variable in the memory that value will
be stored. This point should come to your brain otherwise coming classes daily you will
fail in the exam. Okay. Fine.
So that is the point. Yesterday we have discussed and uh
Okay. What is the meaning of account one dotbalance
to the compiler and to the JVL? Compiler always work with declarations. JVM always work with memory. Okay. Done.
Next point. Let's go. Tell me. Last class. We have understood compiler
searching for mobile variables. In which class? Account one class in account one class that variable is not available. So
throwing error clearly it is showing account variable type it is considering
type means which is side left side or right side left side left side right side should not consider okay let's
continue with the next points uh now I'm commenting okay have you finished remaining exam remaining development or
no uh now I have to initialize account to
object uh initializing account two instance
with the object BK values. Uh bank name same branch name same same ifse same
account number different say 5 6 7 8 and account holder BK and uh somewhere you
write eight okay uh now different value you can write balance tell me now the
question what the meaning of account to two dobbalance is there any difference from compiler is there any difference to
the compiler from account one to account two to the compiler to the compiler any
Friends, what the meaning of account to two do.balance compiler search for balance variable in
account to two class. What the account to class? Bank account in the bank
account class. Balance variable is available. Yes. So compile successfully. No error. Uh now tell me is account
to2.balance is the same as account one. Balance to the JVM. No. For JVM account
to do. Balance Means which object 2020 object are you following right? Uh if
you write here account to do.balance what compilers what JVM will do? JVM
will go to account to object. What is the account to object? 2020 2020 it will
come here. Account dobbalance means what it will consider what first object it will come here. Understand? Either it is
account one. Balance either it is account one. Balance or
account two.balance balance compiler software both the times it will come to bank account class only uh what is the
difference compiler or JVM JVM because JVM provides separate copy memory for both the object this thought is very
very important please store in your brain uh now after storing that let me
write this question what is the meaning of account one dobbalance and account
two dot balance to the compiler and JVM to the compiler
both account one dob balance account two dob balance search for balance variable in bank account class because both
account one account two is of what type bank account uh for the JVM access the
balance variable memory from account one object access balance variable memory from account two object okay now let me
try to uh finally what I have to do print values system dot out dot print
len of double quotes award Account one object values tell me before storing
values here account one is object instance instance uh here instance uh at
this line number account one is object instance object which object hk
representing object next at this line number account two is object which
object bk object so that's why I'm using the word account one object values uh
now tell me what should I print Custom account one dot
bank name plus account one dot bank name
slash two account one dot branch name
account one dot branch name nexts
Compile. Execute.
Uh, next. Account one dot account number
account one dot account number account number will be print what the account
number 1 2 3 4 tell me these values are coming account wanted bank name branch
name if number these values are coming from here now
are These values when I access these variables are these values are coming from here now. Yes sir.
These are meant for supplying values to the next line. Now meant for storing values in the memory.
Uh come on change your mind. Already I told you again I'm telling you again and again I'm saying same point
again and again I'm telling same point. change your thought process. The meaning
of these lines are storing values in the object. The meaning of these lines are not read from here.
This wrong. Don't look previous line. If you look at previous line in C language and Python, it will work. But in Java,
it will not work. In Java, you will get wrong answers. If you look at previous line, you have to always look into
memory. Account one, pointing, object, memory, whatever values available, those values are reading and printing. Okay,
if you are looking at previous line that is wrong idea always you have to look into memory. So what is the meaning of
SOP and account one dotbalance read value from previous line read value from the memory read value from memory not
from the previous line. Uh next account one dot account holder name
folder name control 1 compile and control 2 executed
what is output coming uh next account one dot balance
balance value also will be printed. Hey, what is this? E
large number when you store in the double value it will come in a exponential format. Okay, exponential
format. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. So now this it
will be multiplied by into 10^ 8 then this dot will be moved to eight digits
right side. So that is the meaning. Okay. So when you are trying to store a large number in the double variable, it
is converted to exponential number and it will be stored internally. Exponential power 8 means 10 into 8.
Then this dot will be moved to 10 digits right side. Okay. Now I am printing
account to two object values.
system.out print what I should write here logic is same now only changing
what account to save it control one compile and control
to execute. So now tell me account to object value second values are coming up
right. So this is the basic idea about how to create real world object in the programming world. Now IFS is showing
wrong.
Okay. Correctly coming off. Yeah. So done. So tell me all values are
coming from where? Memory. From the memory. All values are coming.
Values are stored in the object and values are coming from the object. Okay.
This is the story about object oriented programming basics. As part of object- oriented programming basics, the first
step you have to learn how to create real world object in the programming world. For that we have to follow three
steps minimum. Okay, four steps. Step number one, create a class with object
type name. Second step, declare the variables for storing values. Okay,
declare fields for storing values. Third step in user class create the instances
as many real world objects you wanted to create. And the fourth step store values
inside the instance and then read and display that values totally five steps or four steps whatever. So these five
steps if you practice then object- oriented programming will be easy. Uh now you can develop new examples based
on your choice. Uh now tell me yesterday I told you when you are creating real world objects in the programming world
do we need a system? Not required. While walking on the road also we can create. You found hotel then what you write?
class hotel open bracket. Uh first string hotel name string hotel owner
name string type of the hotel restaurant bar and restaurant or family restaurant
what okay uh type of the hotel and next when it is started like this number of okay it's address that is a number of
variables now this class hotel representing this particular hotel no now I want this hotel then what write in
the class government or whatever the class name then hotel h1 equal to new hotel h2 H2 equal to new hotel H1 dot
value store H2 dot value store uh S O and H1 dot SO and H2 dot so this way you
have to start practicing any number of examples okay look around you you will find so many objects in your hand so
many objects are there book pen bag okay chair classroom faculty computer paper
so there are so many objects look around you fan light speaker mic so How many
objects are there? Projector so many objects are there. Happy you can create as many as you want. Practice it. Clear?
Now when you are working with object oriented programming basics, you will come across three words to create real
world object. In the programming world, I need two things. Number one, instance,
right? Without instance, can I bring a hurry into the programming world? No. Second, if you want to create instance,
what you required? Class. Without class I cannot create instance. So first I
required a class. From the class I have to create what? Instance. Understand my point? Now try to answer very important.
What is a object? What is a class? What is a instance? This is the first basic
definitions you have to understand. Then with this we completed object oriented programming basics and then we are going
to the next steps. So what is a object? Object is a real world thing. Okay
observe in the real world. HK is a object. Tell me is this HK also
available in the software or not? Uh HK is the real world object and also what
software object. So what is the meaning of software object? Memory. Uh now if you want to create real world object in
the programming world what I required I need instance of a class. So what is a
object? There are two definitions are there. one from real world, one from programming world. In real world, object
is a okay object is a real world thing which we can see and use. It is a inst
in a programming world an object is a instance. Object is a instance of a
class. Object is an instance of a class. So tell me what is an object? Both you combine and tell me object is a real
world thing which is an instance of a class. For example, HK, BK, PK are the
objects of type student. So now generally whenever I say object I don't
say particular objects we will talk about common type. Student is a object,
faculty object, bank account object, animal object, vehicle object. All these
are what? Objects. Okay. Now repeat once again. What is an object? Object is an
instance of object is a real world thing which is an instance of a class. For
example, student object HK, BK, PK, animal object, lion, tiger, elephant,
vehicle object, bus, car, bike. Understand? Second, what is a class? If
you want to create this real world object in the programming world, we need a class and instance. And tell me what
is a class? A class is a userdefined data type. According to the data types
chapter, a class is a userdefined data type. A class is a blueprint of an
object. A class is a specification of an object. A class is a template of an
object. A class is a plan or design of an object. How many words you will tell?
Uh there are totally five definitions are there for the class. Number one, user defined data type. Number two,
blueprint of an object. Number three, specification of an object. Number four,
template. Template of an object. Number five, plan or design of an object. Okay.
So no need to tell all five definition to the interior. If you say what is a class there are five definition to the
class which one you want pick user defined data type blueprint if you say
like this he will look at your face what are you telling okay so that's why and you should give answer short and crispy
answer okay you should not extend more in the interview answer so simple answer you have to give short and short and
sweet answer you have to give okay uh what I have to I want you to tell in the interview a class is a userdefined data
type of an object It is a blueprint. A class is a userdefined data type or blueprint of an
object from which we can create multiple objects of same type. What the
definition? A class is a userdefined data type.
Blueprint of an object we can create multiple objects of same
type. Uh now let's understand what why we call it is a userdefined data type. What the purpose of data type? Data type
is used for storing data. User defined data type or data type is used for
storing data. Who created this data type? We created. We created a class for
storing multiple values or multiple data. So that's why class is called what? Data type. Who created this class?
We created. That's why it is called what? User defined data type. Point number one. A class is a userdefined
data type. It is used for storing multiple values of different type of an
object. Multiple values of different type of an object. That is the first definition. Second definition, what is a
class? A class is a blueprint. Have you heard this word blueprint? Uh in the real life we have a word called
blueprint. Very famous. When you want to construct a house, when you go, you can directly take one
land and start construct the house. No, you have to take the permission from the government. Okay. Now, from the uh what
do you call village revenue office or somewhere is there. Okay. You have to take the permission. For that permission when I go to the village punch or you
know government office then they will ask. Okay. If you go and ask hello give me permission I want to construct one house and they will give permission. Uh
they will look at your face and ask where is your house? Uh where is your house? Plan or blueprint? Where is your
house? plan or blueprint or design. He will ask where is your house blueprint? What the meaning of blueprint? Are you
bringing the house enter house to the the government office? No. On a paper
you are designing your house, what is the space you have? Okay. Then in that
space, how much area you are constructing house? How much space surrounding you are leaving? How many
floors you are constructing? In each floor, how much space you are occupying. Okay. The entire details you are drawing
on a paper that design of the house is called what? Blueprint.
So any plan or design of an object is called what? Blueprint. Suppose I want
to start one new bike manufacturing company HK bikes. HK products HK bikes.
Okay. Uh then can I directly go to the factory and start a manufacturing? No. First I have to get one designer. The
bike design I have to prepare on a paper colors and everything. Then this paper I have to give the manufacturers then they
will start manufacturing. So the the bike design on a paper is called what?
Blueprint. When I give this blueprint house blueprint to the constructor builder he will build the house exactly
with the same measurements or not. Uh I am giving one acre land in one acre 10 buildings I want to construct. All the
10 houses are look like same or not. uh internal things will be different and
internal what you are using as interior work it's up to you but outer look look like is what same how many bedrooms same
how many washroom same how many windows same how many doors same how much height same how much width same so everything
is same only internal customer design according to customer internal design will be different but external is what
same uh so tell me some design from which we create multiple objects of same thing is
called what? Blueprint. So what is a class? A class is a blueprint or plan or
design of an object from which we will create multiple objects of same type.
Understood my point. I created a class called a bank account. From the bank account I created first object, second
object of different type of same type of same type. Next tell me I am asking one
object. Then I am asking tell me what are the properties of this object? What are the operations of this object? Where
will you see in object or in class? I want to you find what are the properties of an object. What are the
operations of an object? Where we will mention the properties and operation of an object? Inside the class and tell me
class specifies what are the operations and what are the values of an object. So
can I call a class is a specification of an object. Uh so what is a class? A
class is a specification of an object that specifies the properties of an
object and operations of an object. So totally we have to tell how many definitions? Three definitions to the
interviewer. A class is a userdefined data type using which we can store
multiple values of different type of an object. We can store multiple values of an object of different type. Second,
what is a class? A class is a blueprint or plan or design of an object from
which we can create multiple objects of same type. Next, a class is a
specification of an object that specifies the properties and operations of an object. A class is a template.
When I can say template, look at here. I am saying uh if you open notepad,
notepad new class. Look at that. When I say Java, Java is giving program
template. Now template means what? What it contains. Okay. The next it groups, it groups something. Uh now if you open
file new uh now CC++ this is CC++ program template. All right. File new.
If I open PL program template is this. If I open file new HTML HTML program
template is this. If you open file new other and here we have Python Python.
Python Python. Okay. Python template is empty
because Python is a scripting language. It doesn't have any template. That's what I'm saying. All other programming languages are
fully syntaxed programming language. But Python is a no syntax programming language. There is no body to it. Of
course, syntax is there exactly like mathematics. There is no special syntax in Python. Just mathematic syntaxes only
we need to follow. Now, does mean that does it mean that Python is easier? No.
Uh now finally what the point I'm trying to tell what is a template of a program okay a template is nothing but it will
carry the things what required for building something. So class is a template of an object. It groups
variables methods constructor block inner class as a one unit for representing object and its values and
operation. So totally okay three definitions or four definitions or combined all definitions as a single
definition. It's up to you. A class is a userdefined data type. It is a blueprint of an object from which we create
multiple objects of same type. It specifies the operations. It specify
what an object contains and what operation this object performs. Okay. Now, so totally one paragraph you can
tell a class is a userdefined data type. It is a blueprint of an object from
which we can create multiple objects of same type. It specifies what an object
contains and what operations it performs. So this is the total. What is a class? What is the use of the class?
What is an object? How to create an object? Object is a real world thing which is an instance of a class. What is
a class? Class is a userdefined data type. Blueprint creates multiple object. Specifies what it contains, what an
object contains. And last but not least, what is an instance? Now tell me instance already you know that what is
instance? Instance is a uh instance is a memory. It is a memory created from
where? A class. Uh it is a only one memory. There are multiple memories. Multiple memories. That means it is a
one copy memory. Now so tell me what is a what is an instance? An instance is a one copy memory created from a class for
what purpose? For representing real world object by storing its values. Last question. Class
also representing object. Instance also representing object. Class representing
object or type of object. Instance representing type of object.
Object object. Class represent object logically.
OB instance represent object physically. So class is also called logical
construct of an object because it specifies what an object contains. It will only tell what an object contain
but not exact values. Object contain bank account object contain balance. How much? I don't know. Go and ask instance.
Uh object object contain account number. What is the account number? I don't know. Go and ask instance. Class
construct the object logically. Suppose I draw a house on the paper. Can I go
and live in that paper? No. Not possible. I have to construct that house on the land and I can go and live. The
house on the paper is what? Class. The house on the land is what? Object.
Instance. Are you following? So class represent object logically. So class is
called logical construct of an object. Object represent sorry instance represent object physically. So we call
instance. Object is an instance of a class. Is it clear
Babu Bagger?
Okay. Now understand. So totally object oriented programming basics you got to understand totally four points. Number
one, what is a class? Sorry, what is an object? What is a class? What is a instance? How to create real world
object in the programming world? To create real world object in the programming world, find an object,
create a class, create a instance, store that values in this object. Kam real
world object is read. Clear my point? Last shortcut. Try to answer. I want to
create a student in Java. What should I do? Classes student. New student. One more student.
Good. Again, we write classes student. No. New student. New student. New student. Clear. Next. I want to create
employee plus employee new employee. Super. I
want to create a bank account. New bank account. New bank account. New
bank account. I want to create projector
lifelong you have to follow until you retire from the software industry class.
Okay. Hope you all understand object oriented programming basics. Any confusion. Okay. Now with this we done
with our object oriented programming first step. Okay. Creating real world
object in the programming world. While creating real world object in the programming world we are having few
problems. You have to start solving one one problem and implement the new topic.
Okay. Now objectoriented programming is completed.
Understood? Programming completed. While programming we have few problems. Now we
have to start solving that problem. In your childhood at the age of one or two years you started speaking. Now uh your
your mother, father, grandparents, okay started teaching you how to speak. You
started speaking. Then after started speaking what your parents started doing how to speak teaching or correctly
speaking uh the mistakes what you are speaking are slowly correcting. Uh so
writing program object oriented programming is completed. We have totally five to six problems are there.
Five to six concepts are there and okay first problem observe
two instances I created here online students account one account two two instances are there in instance one
instances two you are storing first object HK values in instance one second
object BK value in instance two clear but carefully observe in both instances
do you have same values or different values
Come on. Come on. In both instances are storing same values and different
values. Sum of the same values some of the different values. Account bank name
branch name ifs are bank name branch name if in second
object also said. So both assume I have to take one example. Sir uh your account
is in HDFC. My accounting is COC bank sir. Then what to do? You are selling
one project to all banks separately for every bank separately every bank separately for
every branch. Are you following? You are not giving only one project for all the
banks. Okay. This project you develop common to all the banks. You gave this
project to HDFC bank. Then this project is working for all HDFC banks accounts.
Same project you sell to whom now? COC then COC install that project separately
using COC accounts and HFC accounts together you are creating no both are separate. So if you consider HDFC bank
HDFC bank name branch name IFSC for all accounts are same or not? Yes. Then for
example in the HDFC bank branch I have one lakh objects are there. Then one
lakh into uh 1 2 3 three variables are created one lakh times are not one lakh
time it is storing same value or different value. Uh tell me if it is
storing the same value providing memory for one lakh time is it a good idea bad
idea? Performance issue now more memory consume to allocate memory more time has
to be spent. So more time more memory performance issue application execution
will be slow. So the first problem we have identified here is whenever we are
trying to create real world object in the programming world inside the class whenever we are declaring the fields for
storing values you should question yourself is this field meant for storing
same value in all objects different value for each object. If it is storing
same value, I should tell to compiler and JVM provide only one copy memory.
Provide memory only one time common to all objects. Provide memory only one time common to all objects. Uh this
property is providing uh contain the value first object first value second object second value different value it
is storing. Then I should tell to compiler and JVM hello provide separate copy memory in each instance for the
object. Then how can I talk to the compiler and JVM? Second chapter. How can we communicate to the compiler
and JVM? I want to tell to compiler do this operation. I want to tell to compiler do
another operation. How can I tell? Scanner meant for reading input
to communicate with the end user. Scanner I want to communicate with compiler and JVM. Second chapter I'm
giving chapter reading. Second chapter
commands command C Java C Java
to start compiler to start JVM Java C Java commands second chapter buffer
second chapter
What the second chapter comments, identifiers, keywords and tell
me how can I communicate with the compiler and JVM? By using comments, I can say don't compile. By using
identifiers, I can say this is the name of the program. But I want to tell to the compiler JVM do this operation. Then
what? Keywords. Now repeat once again. I want to tell to compiler and JVM to
provide only one memory or to provide multiple copies of memory. For that I
have to use one keyword called static. What the keyword? Static. Static is the
keyword I have to use. So if I want to provide only one copy memory to a
variable common to all objects then I have to declare that variable as static.
Understand? If I want to provide separate copy of memory for each object
then I have to declare that variable as static or non-static uh declare that variable as a non-static
and provide memory by using new keyword. Tell me now when whenever I have written
new keyword new bank account new keyword will go to the bank account class and provide memory to all fields available
in the class or non-static fields available in the class only non-static
fields available in the class if there is any static field available will it provide memory no are you guys
understand right so all points once again I want to revise please try to observe then we are moving to the next
chapter types of variables. Variable already
completed. No variable is a named memory location. It is used for storing value common to used for storing one value or
one object reference. Sorry much. Let me revise it.
Object oriented programming basics notes I will upload today. Okay. Internationally I have not uploaded yesterday to see how many people
remember all people are guessing is no this is what I am telling
there same example everybody teaching okay any faculty you take same example
because this is the best example to make you understand class or object textbooks will teach you trees
any core java based textbook if you take they will teach with a tree or fruit or
vegetable like that they will teach. Okay, I will teach with a house because you are a software engineer you got so
much of money in future. Hey come on software engineer so much of money will get then what you will do
your plan is what construct one house uh now I want to construct apartment type
it is routine generally software engineers are weekend going for resorts for refreshment purpose okay there in
the resorts apartment is there huts will be there hot sty will be that village culture they wanted to see weekends uh
that's why I decided in amir I have one acre lands assume okay
sir one acre And you have okay one land is there I want to
construct the houses then I went to the one builder builder is now showing this building design and this building design
apartment style is routine I don't want I want to construct the individual houses the moment my software engine
coming back from the office to the house you should feel like a village environment cool and you know uh wow
like feeling okay uh then now hut style building I want uh then now builder has
shown his design then I approved it okay go and construct then he's going to the land my one acre land and started
constructing the same design houses right so first design second design third tell me all these objects are look
like our plan only now uh assume consumer is customer is interested in auto type building he wants to construct
individual house then customer provides sufficient land to the builder then builder construct the building as many constru consu consumer required exactly
same it is there on the paper real building object are constructed. This is what blueprint design and these are what
real buildings. So this is the class and this is what object understand my point. So this is the example I prepared and
share to the world. Everybody teaching same example you can find in now finally what the definition object is a real
world thing which is an instance of a class for example student employee bank account bike etc. Class is a userdefined
data type. It is it is a blueprint of an object from which we can create multiple
objects of same type. Class specifies what an object contains and what
operation object can perform. For example, class student. What class will do? Class will specify what it contains.
Student number, student name. What operations can perform? Listen and
listen and listen and sleep. Yes or no? Uh listen,
listen. Listen. Okay. So wonderful. Offline students are better. I can see you and wake you up. Online students
what they are doing nobody knows. Okay. Uh next. Now what is an instance? Instance is a memory. One copy memory.
Instance is an one copy memory created from a class for storing particular
object values of this class type. For example, new student new student
particular object. Who is the student? HK. Who is the next student? HK. Object student class student with
variables and methods object memory with values. So this is the one slide where
all the points are clearly available. I will upload these all points. uh you have to start work yourself by heart and
remember then now I'm moving to the next chapter variable types of variables already you know all these points uh
what is a variable in this chapter we will learn storing values and objects temporal during program execution to
store values of an object to store values of an operation we have to learn two points storing values of an
operation storing values of an object if you want to store values of an object.
Object means what? Class double class box open bracket closed bracket fields static variable and non-static variable.
Operation means class of method method. If you want to store values of an operation, I have to create variables
inside where method next in this chapter we will learn allocating common memory
to all objects and allocating individual memory to each object separately. Uh
tell me if you want to allocate memory common to all objects which variable I have to use static. If you want to store
values separately for every object non-st when I take a method method required perform operation to perform
operation I required what input and I required what output. So to store input I need one variable to store output I
need another variable receiving and storing input values for a method and storing output values of a method. So
totally in this chapter first we are learning how to store values of an object how to store values of an
operation one type of variable class level variables and method level variables. Class level variables are
again two type allocating memory to store values of an object allocating individual memory to each object
separately static variable non-static variable. Next uh now method level variables are again two types. Receiving
and storing input values of a method and storing output values of a method.
So totally how many types of variable Java support? Four types. Static variable non-static variable parameter
local variable. Static non-static variables are class level variables for storing value of an object. Parameter
and local variables are meant for parameter and local variables are method level variables meant for storing value
of an operation. Understand this slide what you are learning in this chapter. Uh what is a variable? What are the use
of variable? First we are understanding uh in this chapter we will learn we will learn storing values and objects
temporarily. So first we are trying to understand what is a variable what the use of variable. A variable is a name
and a memory location. It is used for storing value or object reference temporarily during program execution.
How can I create variable? Variable created by using data type. Uh which data type? Either primitive data type or
reference data type. Uh it means to create a variable we can use either eight primitive data types or we can use
eight reference data types. What the basic syntax to create variable? Data type variable name semicolon or data
type variable name equal to value. What is the data type? can be primitive type or reference type. What is the variable
name? Variable name is variable name. What is the value allowed? If it is a primitive type, mathematical value. If
it is a reference type, one object reference. How can I create object of a class?
By using new keyword. Okay. Tell me for example, how can I create variable int equal to five? I want to learn how to
create a primitive variable int equal to five. It is what data type. It is what variable. It is what? Lit. Java. Java
technology is what literal. It is a literal literal nothing but a value. Then whenever in a Java program if you
write int a equal to five what compiler understand what JVM understand compiler will verify that line by following
syntaxes whether syntax right or not. What syntax apply four rules applied. Rule number one is this int data type or
not. Second is this variable a following identifier rules or not. And is this
five valid value or not? Large integer number but is it a valid value or not?
If it is a valid value can it be stored in the int type or not? So totally how many rules applied? Four. Data type
valid variable name valid value is valid can be stored or not. These four rules
are applied by whom now compile. If all four rules are satisfied compile successfully then who is coming into
picture? JVM. JVM responsible for verifying syntaxes are allocating memory. Allocating memory. It allocates
memory to store value. How much memory it is allocated? Based on the data type. What type of memory allocated? Based on
the data type. Uh now allocate memory number of bytes based on the data type. Name this memory with the given name.
Store the given value. Suppose if I take index equal to five creates four bytes of memory. Name it as X. Store the value
five. Like this. This first point about what variable.
What is a variable? Next. Will JVM store the given value in the decimal format as it is? No. It will store the data in
binary format. It internally converts that by decimal value into binary format by dividing two. Okay, already you know
this. Then finally a variable can be created by using what? Primitive data type or by using reference data type. Uh
tell me what are the differences between primitive data type and reference data type. Now tell me a variable that is
created using primitive data type is called primitive variable by B1 equal to short S1 equal to int i1 long l float f
double d car c by boolean b okay all these variables are called what primitive data type variable then what
is a reference variable a variable that is created by using reference data type array or class or interface or enum or
annotation is called what reference variable in i reference variable example
e1 class variable student s1 class variable interface annotation name you didn't know so let later we'll
understand next primitive data type variable meant for what storing one mathematical value can you store
mathematical value in the reference variable no whereas the reference variable is meant for storing one object
reference very important point can I use a primitive data type variable in the mathematical calculation addition
subtraction yes because the newly generated value has a meaning suppose if
I write int x equal to 10 into y equal to into Z= X + Y. If I write X variable
contain 10, Y variable contain 20. X + Y here value generated what 30 is 30
meaningful value or not? Yes. So now it is compiled successfully executed successfully. Whereas can I use a
reference data type variable in the mathematical calculation? No. Suppose if I use uh tell me now E1 reference is 10,
E2 reference is 2020. If write E1 plus E2 here what is reference generated? 30
30 with the 3030 is there any object created is it a normal mathematical
value reference of the object reference of the object that means with the reference 3030 there should be a object
object error not there not there because object is not there compiler will throw
everyone understand so finally what did you understand primitive data type and reference data type variable created by
using primitive data type is called primitive variable variable created by using reference data type is called
reference variable most of the time in the project which type of variables you will create and work reference variables
not both without primitive variable how reference variable work some other person will create primitive variables
you in the project most of the time in the project you don't create data type
classes bank account class student class employee class you don't create you will
create college class, company class, bank class, consumer class. These kind of classes you will create in those
classes. What is your job? Your job is using the objects which are already created by other developer. How can you
use create the object? Student S1 equal to new student. Uh S1 is a variable of what type? Student connection con equal
to new connection. Connection is what? Reference type. 99% of the time you are
going to work with reference variables. that 1% of primitive variables or 100%
of primitive variables created by other developer background. Okay. Uh fine. So next can I use a primitive variable
mathematical calculation? Yes. Can I use reference variables in the mathematical calculation? No. So do you understand
basic point on variable? What is a variable? Why variable? How to create variable? What type of variable we
create? Primitive or reference? What is the difference between primitive variable and reference variable? What is
the compiler and JVM activity with respect to variable? Compiler will verify syntax. JVM will allocate memory.
These are the points should be there. First of all, these all points we already discussed in the data type chapter. Remember it's just a revision.
Now either primitive type variable or reference type variable. either
primitive type variable or reference type variable
where we can create the variable can be primitive type
variable or reference type variable whatever where I can create uh now I have I have Java file okay I have Java
file I have Java file example on Java and I have what class and I have method
totally three places are there Java file example on Java class example Example ydm can I create variable any of the
three places inside Java file be only three places directly Java file number two class number three method can I play
can I create the variable in any of the three places or not Java is an object
oriented programming language in Java everything you have to do for an object or for an operation come on come on come
on everything you have to do either for object or for operation is a Java file
represent resenting any object? No. Is the Java file representing any operation? No. Then when it is not
representing operation or object, how can you create? So if you try to create a variable or method inside a class, if
you create a variable or object inside a class, sorry, if you try to create a
variable or method inside a class directly,
you are disturbing me like anything.
India. Note
English.
class. Huh? What is an object?
What is an object?
What is a class?
Class is a class. What is the instance?
point.
Please
You don't know.
Control
flow statement. Control
flow statement.
Control
statement. Control flow statement.
operators
again you are speaking
why you are unable to control I'm talking to someone you are talking
to your friend
Let's go now.
Any
lover problem?
Any financial problem?
N problem.
If you guys don't listen, don't respond, you cannot understand object-oriented programming. Impossible.
You have to respond to my questions. You have to speak out. Open your mouth and speak out.
How many more days we have to complete course? How many more months?
One month. Monday, April 1st. May 5th is our last
date.
Understand? Not understand. Please write your notes. I can't do that.
Spoon feeding is over. You are not kids. You are not LKG UK and
you are not you you have a responsibilities coming days you have responsibilities. You should get job.
You should get married. You should take care of your wife or husband or childrens and you have to take care of your parents. Be like a responsible
person. Don't be like irresponsible idiot. Daily I cannot motivate you to study
motivate you daily is it a onetoone session you have to motivate yourself you should
be you know a target person a person who is always expecting motivate please sir
motivate me sir then only I'll study commit suicide waste I'll motivate to you that side
first fellows You should have a target. If you have
target daily you will practice daily slowly slowly practice and you reach your target with the motivation only I
will reach your target and you never one day you'll have peak height and one day you'll have low and again peak then
finally what happen you will get more you'll lose your interest and you will be away from the java
how many days I have to motivate man how many days I should request you come on listen come on listen come on listen
daily we are wasting our time on writing notes and motivating only
focus in the class. Reply where I can create variable. How many places are
there?
Last
subject.
Yeah,
daily per month 10,000 rupees you are spending at least work for 1%
time to time eating digesting and ready for the next time
1% also if you are not spending the time for 10,000 rupees you are spending in Hyderabad why you are
There is simple simple points neatly diagrams I'm showing and not focusing
less fellows and tell me how many places are there in
the Java program three places. First one Java files, second one class, third one
method. Three places we have. Uh now tell me am I allowed to create variable anywhere as I like? No. Java is a
objectoriented programming language. So where I have to write every program
should starts with class. Outside of the class you are not allowed to write anything directly in the Java file
except package. Module package import and comment. Package import comment. Of
course, module will be a separate program. It is also one Java file. Package statement, import statement,
comment. Except these three, anything else you write outside of the class, compiler will throw error because
remaining all statements are meant for either storing data or performing the operation for an object or for
operation. So where you are allowed to create variable either inside the class
or inside the method only. If you try to create a variable directly inside a Java
file, compiler will throw error. Let us try this point.
answer here I'm creating int equal to 10 compiler compiler throw error illegal start of
unnamed class or preview feature and disabled by default unnamed classes
means from Java 22 version on I mean Java 21 version onwards we can create
Java program without classes class creation not required okay that facility
is available from Java 21 version onwards so if you want to use Java
program without creating class I have to use some extra feature that I'll tell you later okay let me use old versions I
think not there in my system
okay one minute I want to Install Java downloads.
I'm installing Java 8 version to show you that error 8 or 11 or 17. Any of the
three versions you can install.
Open command prompt. Clear screen. Verify which version Java is using by
default. Java C- version. Which version using 21? I want to use old version.
Then I have to set path equal to C/ JDK. It is installed in program file
sir.
J install.
Uh here I have 22 217. Let me install JDK 17. It will work.
Windows download 8 or 17 or 11. Anything you can
download. If you want download 8 version, I have to log into Java 11 is available. Java 8
it is also available. Yeah, you can download but it is in the locked mode. You have to log
open this Java 17.
Yes. Next change. I am directly installing
Java 17. Okay. Next.
Close. Uh close this browser. Open command prompt.
Set path equal to C/ JDK 17/bin
Java C - version uh which version using 17 Java - version 17 version using Java
C test 01 uh look at there what the compile time we got class R interface or
enam record expected that means a Java program must starts with what
class okay it should starts with class or interface or enum or record you
cannot directly create variable then where am I allowed to create variable either inside a class inside a class or
inside a method now here inside class I'm writing int a= to 10 is it allowed
allowed clear screen compile it okay now inside method also I'm creating int a=
10 or 20 or whatever the number is it allowed yes allows compile successfully Sir, how is it possible sir? Class level
method level you have used same name because they are different places. No, this is a class scope and this is what
method scope. In the same class scope you cannot create. In the same method scope you cannot create but in the class
scope and in the method scope I can create. No problem. Compile successfully. Then whose value will
read? Sir local variable value will read. How to read class level? We will discuss that. Okay. So first program all
you understand where can we create variable? Variable we can create only either inside a class or inside a
method. If you try to create outside of the class compiler will throw error. Then tell me you are learning Java
Java student you are learning Python Python student you are sleeping sleeper
you are talkinger. Huh? Right. So I created variable inside
a class. Then this variable is called what? Class level variable. Class level
variable. Uh I created variable inside a method. It is called what? Method level
variable. Class level variable provided memory inside the class or inside this
class object. Right? So class is meant for representing object. So class level
variables are meant for storing storing an object data and tell me what
the purpose of method level method is meant for representing operation. Method level variables are meant for uh storing
storing object data and operation data meant for storing a an operation an
operation data. So in Java program I have to store data of an object. I want
to store data of an operation. If you create variable inside a class, it is called class level variable. If you
create variables inside a method, they're called what? Method level variables. Uh class level variables.
Method level variables can be primitive type of variables also can be reference type variables. You can create string
type variable. Long array type variable in the class also no problem. Understand? Right? Uh either primitive
or reference variable create at class level. We call what? Class level variable. Create primitive and reference
variables inside a method we call it as what? Metal level variable. What the purpose of class level variables? Class
level variables are meant for storing value of an object. Metal level variables are meant for storing values
of an operation. Up understand right then now tell me in our previous example
if you remember we have created. Okay. So in previous example we have
created oh now here I created variables inside
the class why I have created bank name branch name if
at class level for storing object values okay uh now I am creating
one operation here void deposit tell me deposit is an object operation.
It is an operation. To perform this operation, do you need any input?
No. No. What do you require?
Huh? Account number already there. No.
Account number already there. Then what else you required? Amount. If you want to deposit, you need amount. Tell me
this amount is meant for all operations of this object only for depositor.
Next question I'm asking I want like deposit I also have withdraw
uh withdraw tell me withdraw operation also requires what account and amount
now why current balance uh current balance required account amount
amount current balance current balance of your what is the current balance of your account give me 10 rupees no right
bank is not asking the give me money to show the balance Huh? Uh, now tell me if you want to perform deposit operation, I
require totally three values. Of course, four values. Number one, account number,
account holder name, balance plus amount. Uh, for performing the draw, I
require account number, account holder name, balance plus amount. For current
balance, account number, account holder name and balance. Amount required and
not required, not required. That means once you take a class that class contain the values and operations. What are the
values common to all operations? The values which are common to all
operations. I must I must store those values by using variables inside method
inside class. I want to store value common to all operation. Create the variable at class
level so that that can be accessible in all three methods. Maya I want some value only for one
operation then create that variable where in that particular method tell me
amount I have to create where in the class in the method in the method where
like this double amount double amount if I write double amount
here what is the amount value if I create a double amount inside the
method body what is the value of amount here as a method developer can I decide
or the method depositor has to pass value depositor has to pass value I don't take
the value myself right then if you want depositor to pass value where I should create this variable in the method body
in the method parenthesis in the method parenthesis I have to take double amount copy paste double amount
already follow my point uh now I want to find interest Find interest
calculator. Now tell me interest calculator. Will you calculate the interest?
Why sir? Why that question?
unmute and ask what is your doubt? Uh sir, we are passing the double amount
um within the deposit method, right? So yeah, I had a question why we have to
declare that amount uh double amount variable inside the deposit method.
You don't want this variable. That's what you asked. No, no, no. Why we are creating in between sir? Like why why can't we
create outside uh within the flower bracket if I write here what the meaning
who will take the value who will give the value to this amount yeah okay got it sir yeah it should go
to what you got it tell me so we have to pass the variable um yeah
the amount inside the method uh deposit
if you create here whose value is this variable this method
developer variable. Okay. You should decide the value 5,000
and you always want to deposit 5,000. No, no, no. It it should be uh like uh
dynamic s. Yeah. Uh who has to pass this value? User method caller user. Whoever calling
this method to deposit, he has to pass. If you want to take value from the user, I have to create that variable in method
parenthesis. So that whoever call this deposit method he will pass the value. Got it sir.
Do you remember add method? Yes sir. Ah add method adding its own value. User
passed the value sir. User passed value where you have to take value from the user. I have to take int as
par. Yeah parameters. Local variable s parameter sir. Parame parameter sir. Okay. Now
yeah. Okay sir. Got it. Thank you. What are you talking?
No, I got it, sir. No, it's okay. You can mute. Thank you, sir. I'm asking question. Answer to my
question. What you people both are talking?
Why deposit method?
H which variable is your boss is your
teacher then how can he can explain
what what the meaning of this head movement
how many times next time she's asking one question I'm trying to explain her
and You people are talking yourself such a worst mentality
what she's asked what I am explaining you should focus on my explanation
every day I should tell you the same thing don't talk don't talk you people done the feast to me not your
friends he will say simply I don't know her did he explain your question answer
explainer not explain then how you are expecting he will explain to you
and he both joined at the same time of course when you have a doubt how can he have the clarity on the doubt
such a bad behavior she people are having every day I should teach you on the same point
5 minutes before I told him when I'm talking to someone don't talk to others
advance about 4:00 why you discussion now
after class you cannot ask that question do you why you are went to the advance of 4:00 evening now
such a stricted minded personalities you are having what is the present you never focus
always past or future what is present what is happening now
that you don't
Uh now tell me how many types of variables we have two types. First one
class level variables. Next one method level variables. Class level variables
are meant for storing values of an object. Uh method level variables are
meant for storing values of an operation. Okay, sometimes I want to
store value common to all methods. Then where I should create that variables?
Class. So tell me what is the purpose of class level variables? Class level variables are used for storing values of
an object and also meant for storing value common to all methods.
Understand? Next, I wanted to store value only for one operation. Then what
is the places we can create variable in the method parenthesis also in the method body suppose I have I have
another example I'm taking interest calculator or in calculate interest it's
not interest calculatorate
calculate interest uh interest account 1 dot calculate interest I call then tell me here I should calculate calcate
interest then interest variable is meant for okay some some formula I'm writing here then this from from this formula
some result is generated that result I have to store in my local variable or not uh so tell me sometimes we create
variable in the parenthesis sometimes we create variable inside the method body
if you create variable in the method parenthesis are you taking are you decide the value caller will decide the
value uh the person Who call this method? He will decide the value. If you create
variable inside the method, who will decide the value? Caller or this method developer?
This method developer will decide. So I wanted to store value for an object
common to all methods. Where I should create that variable class level outside of the methods. I want to store value
specific to one operation of a method. I should create variable inside the method. What are the places we have
inside the method? In parentheses and in the body. If you want to take input from
the user programmer. Then I have to take the variable in the parenthesis. I want
to store result or the value by developer in this method itself. Then we have to take what local variable. So
totally how many types of variables we have? Four types. Uh class level variables are of again two types are
there. What the two types? static variable a non-static variable what the purpose
of static variable if I want to store same value for all objects of this class
I want to store same value all objects of this class then I have to use what
variable static I want to store different value in each object of this
class I have to create what non-static variable quickly first let us understand static non-static variables and then
we'll Understand parameter variables.
Uh so types of variables are of two types. I can create variables inside class inside the method. Inside a class
class level variables inside method method level variables. Class level variables are meant for storing object
values. Method level variables are meant for storing operation valid. Are you replying again? watching her
where replying inside I'm talking to you green shirt
I not you are not
I cannot motivate you okay and and I cannot make you fall in love with me. Okay?
So you have to speak out.
Class level
branch static or nonstatic
static non-static. Okay. Uh now when I create
object of this class how many objects I can create? Multiple. First object second object. Now I created first
object all five variables memory there. second object all five variables memory is there. Then I realize ar branch and
ifs is the same value for all objects. Then allocating memory common uh
allocating memory repeatedly in every object is bad programming. Then what to do?
Provide only one copy memory. Who has to provide memory? I JVM JVM. Then I have
to provide only one copy memory. Remove from the objects. Hello. Both objects
acts the same memory. For that what I have to do? Static. The moment when I declare the variables as a static, the
variables are provided memory outside of the object common to both objects.
Understood? Uh now when we use a new keyword to create object, new keyword
will go to bank account class and checking static. O no memory static. No non-static. Uh 1 2 3 variables memory
only provide. Understand? So now tell me look at this code sample
program. This understood sample program. If I run this class how many variables are provided memory.
Okay. How many variables are there in this program? Wrong answer.
Wrong answer. Find out how many variables are there in this program.
How many variables I declared in this program? How many variables I typed in this program?
Five variables. What the fifth variable?
A is one variable. B is another variable. X Y are another variables.
Anything else? Main method parameter is also variable only. Huh?
Inside a method I can create variable at two places. Number one parameter. Number two local. It is also parameter. Now
tell me when this class is loaded into JVM for execution.
When static variables are provided memory when non-static variables are provided memory when parameters and
local variables are provided memory. Once you create variable memory must be there. Huh? Compiler job is providing
memory. Uh verifying the syntax. JVM responsibility is
will JVM provide memory just by seeing the data type. No. Listen. A variable is
a provided memory and three situations. Data type will only tell type of the
memory, size of the memory. It will not tell provide memory. Now who will tell
memory? Provide three people. Number one static. Number two new. Number three method.
Okay. When class is loaded into JVM, JVM automatically provide memory to
static variables. When class is loaded into JVM. When I run Java test. Do you remember first
classes I told to run this class? First class is loaded into JVM. Now the class
test byte code from the hard disk loaded into JVM memory. Immediately JVM will provide memory to static variables.
Next, will a JVM provide memory to non-static variables? No. Non-static variables meant for contain one copy
memory or multiple copies. How many multiple copies? As many times
we use new keyword, one time new keyword, one memory, two times new keyword, two memory. Three times new
keyword, three times memory. So, will JBM decide? Can JBM decide how many copies are memory required? No.
Understand my point? Then JVM will not provide memory to non-static variable.
Just by loading the class, static variables are automatically memory provided. Everyone accepted? Second
point, non-static variables memory not provided memory automatically only when object is created, memory provided.
Third point, if I create variable either as a method parameter or inside method
body, are those variables automatically provided memory? No. parameters and
local variables are meant for storing value of a method. When the method value
should read uh when the value to the method should store at the time of execution. If a method is not executed,
do I need to provide memory to the parameters and local variable? No. So when a variable in the program
provide memory three situations when class is loaded into JVM
when object is created and when method is called method is called when method
is executed just by creating or calling or uh calling then answer when static
variables are provided memory when class is loaded into JVM when non-static
variables are provided memory when object object is created
when parameter and local variables are provided memory when method is called
next question I'm asking how many times a class is loaded into JVM only one time
then how many times static variables are provided memory one time how many times we can create object from a class
multiple times then how many times non-static variables are provided memory multiple copies listen and answer how
many times we can call a method Multiple times I can call M1 M1 M1 M1.
Multiple times I can call. How many times parameter and local variables are provided? Memory.
As many times as I call those many times memory will be provided. Everyone understand? Just by declaring
variable memory is not provided. You have to do any one of the three activities either loading the class,
create the object, call the method. Clear? Look at this code. If I run this class, Java example,
is the class loaded into JVM? Is object created from this class?
No. Object is created only when you create. Is main method automatically called by
JVM? No. Is main method automatically called by
JVM? No. No. You again I have to take you to the level programmer. When we run
a class, main method automatically called and executed by JVM. Adexa
command and arguments program explain completed. Uh when command line arguments program executed JVM calls
main method by passing array object as argument to arcs variable arcs variable
memory created pointing to command line argument. Remember guys forgot today
revise and come tomorrow. Okay. Now tell me so when I run this class in this program totally how many variables are
provided memory vin
how many variables I declared five how many variables are provided memory three
what the three variables a b arcs a variable because static b variable
because of statics and arcs variable because of main method parameter Main method automatically called by JVM.
Answer look at the flow already 11:00. No problem. Java example example class is loaded. A variable memory created. B
variable memory created. X variable. No. Y variable no because
non-static and object is not created. Next main method called by JVM. Then RX
variable memory also created going out.
I want to provide memory to XY also. What to do? Think and come tomorrow. Understand?
Tomorrow class I will go double speed than today class.
Today I will upload all these slides, notes, everything. Object oriented programming notes and also variables
notes. Tomorrow my speed will be double than today. How can you catch the speed?
By listening by replying. If you reply you don't feel I'm going speed. If you are watching huh
by the time you look at the screen four slides will be run. So that's why active
in the class reply you are offliner onlineer I don't care you have to reply
online students your side you have to use your voice and speak out don't feel that I cannot listen I can listen your
voice I am Lord Krishna you are my Arjuna okayh
good night see you all
Japanese.

