ript


Good morning everyone. All right, last class we have completed
variables chapter first. Okay, I have uploaded complete notes of object-
oriented programming basics. I think from my side there is no pending notes
to be uploaded right from first chapter two till now everything I have shared
I need to share you literal topic video that is one pending I'll upload now today possible morning afternoon I'll
upload except that remaining everything is shared now look at here object
oriented programming basics what is a class what is a object what is
a class what is the instance I have shared and then steps to create real world object in the programming world
totally how many steps are there seven steps first one is identify one real world object we identified real world
object called bank account then identify create it by using class yeah created by
using class next identify it properties means values create them by using fields yeah we
created identified six properties created them by using fields and next identify when to Initialize those
properties. Define blocks, constructor, etc. method. So this topic we have to learn this week. Identify operations of
this object. Implement them by using method. This topic we have to learn in this week. Identify inner objects of
this object. Create them by using inner class also we have to learn this week. Identify individual objects of this
object. Pulsar bullet. Okay. Object is bike. If you consider it's individual objects are what? Pulsar and bullet.
Okay. We have identified individual objects HK and BK. Okay, we identified
create by using instances of this class. That's what I done. Created two instances for two objects. And next,
finally, initialize each instance by using its respective individual object values and perform operations by
invoking business logic methods in this class. So what operations we perform? Initializing completed. After
initializing, I have to perform operation that we will learn in this today class. Okay. So this is object-
oriented programming. Then I mean object oriented programming basics.
What we all learn as part of object- oriented programming basics? We learn object and we learn class and we learn
instance.
Okay. Then after I want to store a data of an object. I want to store a data of
an operation. To store a data of an object and operation what we required variable and types of variables are
required. Then first we understand what is a variable. Okay, this is the syllabus.
This the syllabus totally we have to learn need of this chapter. What is a variable? Why variable? Syntax to create
a variable. Sample program to show variables creation. Difference between primitive data type variable and
reference data type variable. Variable creation. Terminology. When to use variable. Then types of variables. These
seven points are related to variable. Then eighth point where can we create variable? Types of variables and their
purpose. Lifetime and scope of a variable. Alias name of a variable. Default value of a variable. Local
variable rules. Static variable rules. Non-static variables rules. Storing, reading, modifying, printing a value
from the variable, allowed modifiers, local block and its purpose, summary table, method pro sample project, entry
questions, OCJP questions and Java 10 new feature local variable and type
inference. Local variable type inference. So first what are the need of this chapter? In this chapter we will
learn how to store data in a program. We we in this chapter we are learning creating a variable and creating object.
Creating variable creating object already we learn in the data types chapter. Then extra what we are learning
storing data of an object storing data of an operation. Okay. So what the need
of this chapter? In this chapter we are learning storing data of an object. storing data of an operation. Okay. So
what is a variable? A variable is a named memory location. It is used for storing a value or an object reference
temporarily during program execution. How can we create variable? How can we syntax for creating variable? By using
data type. What is the syntax for creating variable? Data type variable name equal to value. Uh now if I take
primitive data type then that variable is called what? Primitive variable. If I take reference data type for creating
variable that variable is called reference variable. Then sample program in I have created to create primitive
and reference variable inp primitive variable into Q primitive variable.
I can initialize primitive variable either by value directly or by method call. If you are calling a method to
initialize what the method should not be a void method should be a nonvoid. It should return
some value to store in the variable. Then I can create string type variable also. I can create string type variable
in two ways. S1 equal to hurry or by using new syntax. How can I create object of a class? By using new keyword.
How can I create object of a class? By using new keyword. Uh string having the specialtity. String and array objects
having specialtity. We can create string object and array object without without new keyword and also by using new
keyword. Okay. If I write directly double quotes it is a string even new
string also you can write. How can I create object of our own class? Only by using new keyword only by using new
keyword. So these two are what variables? Primitive variables. These two are what variables? Reference. It is
also reference variable. Then if I create a program like this, what is the flow of execution? Uh tell me is there
if I run this code, will you get any message on the console? No, because there is no sopl. But is there any
statement executed background? Yes. Uh tell me you must always think like a
compiler and JVM not as a human to see output on the console. You should be always think like a compiler and JVM.
What compiler verify syntax? What JVM verify? Memory. Uh when control come
here compiler verify is this int data type valid? Yes. Variable name following identify rules? Yes. Value valid? Yes.
Can be stored here? Yes. Then JVM allocate memory. P variable memory created
50 directly stored. Then int Q equal to Q memory created. This is a value of
method call. Method call. Uh can method call directly M1 stored in the Q variable? No. Method call means what?
From here control is going from main method into M1 method. Written value is
taking back and stored inside Q variable. That is a flow of execution. First Q memory created and M1 method
call control go to M1 method taking the value 60 return value 60 and coming back and storing in the Q. Who are you?
JVM as a JVM each line you have to execute like this arrow marks and draw memory. As a JVM always you have to
visualize what is happening background. Always you have to work on the technique a RV. What the meaning of ARV? Analyze,
realize and visualize. analyze, realize, visual, analyze, realize, visualize. Uh,
now if you don't realize, if you don't visualize the concept, then always you
will fail understanding Java. What is the meaning of this statement? What it is doing? What the meaning of this
statement? Create a new variable with the name P with the value 50. Then what
compiler do? What happened background? What am I doing? What is happening background? What am I doing? I am
storing the value 50. Okay. What is happening background? compiler verifying syntax JVM allocating memory then what
the flow of execution first int type memory created with the name P and then 50 is stored if you don't ask these
three questions number one what am I doing number two what is happening background number three what is the flow
of execution so if you don't analyze these three points on each statement Java understanding object oriented
programming understanding is very difficult and next string is equal to hurry string is userdefined class a
predefined as uh how can I say is there any package here? No, it may be user
defined maybe predefined. So first compiler software verify is there any class with the name string any present
working directory available or not available? Not available. Then it consider as a predefined class then
attaches java.lang here then it become predefined class java.lang string s1
double quotes. Double quotes hurry is of what type? Local string or predefined stringer? Predefined string. Okay,
double quotes hurry is a java.clangstringclass object. java.clangt string class object.
Can I store in java.clang string type variable? Yes. And then what the memory diagram? Do you remember in data type
chapter I gave you full diagram. Now I'm following shortcut diagram directly circle and storing hurry characters.
And next string has to equal new string of hurry. This meaning is also what create string object and store the value
hurry. Then why there are two approaches? Complete details we'll discuss in the string handling chapter not now. Okay. Next example equal new
example. Here example user defined class available. Yes. Already we created class
example. Okay. Next equal to new example. New keyword will go to example class. Create the memory for both the
variables. Except X and Y with value 0 and replace with
1020. So when you see a program your hands automatically started drawing the
diagram. Okay. Your mouth read what is the meaning of it. Your hand should draw
automatically the memory. If not then you are going to fail in your career. You will not pass one question. You
cannot give the correct answer to single question in the exam. Always your mouth should speak. What is the meaning of it?
Creating a new variable of type int with the name P for storing value 50. Then
I'm a JVM draw memory. Then next line next line next line. Speak draw memory.
Speak draw memory. So that interview will get too much impression. Then next what is the primitive v primitive data
type variable and reference data type variable and their differences. Uh a variable that is created by using
primitive data type. A variable that is created by using reference data type. You know already primitive variable
meant for storing mathematical value reference variable meant for storing reference of the object. Uh, next. What is the limitation of Okay. What are the
compiler and JVM activities with respect to one
uh what are the compiler and JVM activities I have given here for explanation for understanding and then
next I have explained limitation of the variable okay program also I gave okay
program points everything I have given theory following by program then limitation of the variable uh variable
can stored only one value. If I try to store second value, previous value is replaced. If I try to store second
object, previous object is replaced with new object. Old object is eligible for garbage collection. This is the memory
diagram for that program. Even variable first contain 10 pointing to this object. When we try to store second
object, new example to the event old object replaced with new object. This old object is eligible for garbage
collection. What the meaning of garbage collection? It ready to destroy. Then next after limitation variable
terminology. Okay. Whenever you are working with a variable we will come across five words. On a variable we will
perform five operations. Declare, define, initialize, assign, access.
Actually it is not access. It is what? Read. So totally how many operations you can perform? Five. Declare, define,
initialize, assign, read. This is a reading. Okay. Accessing is nothing but reading. Now tell me can I read value
available in the variable without variable creation? Can I assign the value to the variable
without variable creation? Can I initialize a variable means store initial value in the variable without
creation? No. So if you want to perform initialize or assign or access these
operation first of all what I have to do declare declare the variable. If you don't declare variable compiler throw
error. So first of all what are the meaning of variable declaration? Creating a new variable
without a value int x= to 10. What the meaning of int x semicolon am I creating
new variable or not? Whenever a data type is there I'm intentional to create new variable. Creating a new variable
without assigning the value. Create empty variable memory. Empty variable blank variable.
Blank variable. It is empty variable. Not a blank. There
is no term called blank variable in Java. Following. There is no blank
variable in Java. We have only empty variable. One new term started in a paid
market with the word blank variable. There is no blank variable. Blank means
what is the meaning of blank? Blank and empty both are same. No, no, no. Both are different. Blank variable is
different. Empty variable is different. Okay. Blank variable means background
some invisible value is there. Okay. Now double quote space it is empty
string or blank string blank string not empty double quotes space is the
space. Can you see space? No. Then we can call it as a blank string. A empty
string or a string with a space is called what? Blank. Understand?
If you write only double quotes immediately double quotes then what we call it as empty string. Empty string is
different. Blank string is different. Empty variable is different. Blank variable is different. And tell me
currently x dbar is it a empty string empty variable doesn't have any value?
No sir. Default value will be there. Now default value available for which type of variable? Class level not method
level variable. Okay. Class level variable only will be blank variable. Class level can be blank
variable. But don't use the term called blank variable. It is not official word of Java. Non-primitive data types. It is
official unofficial. Unofficial. Similarly, blank variable word is not there in Java. Please don't try to use
don't spread it. That is Eclipse terminology maybe. Okay. Uh now variable declaration means create a new variable
without value. Just empty variable you created. Next variable definition means
new variable or accessing variable. Definition I am defining. Defining means
what? Definition. Defining what? English. English definition means new something
you are telling about some new statement. You are preparing about some fan. Tell me about fan. One statement
you are preparing. Preparing means what? Defining. Creating. So tell me declare or define. In both the cases new
variable is creating or not? New memory is creating. So what is a variable declaration? Creating a new variable.
Expecting answer from you. Variable declaration means creating a new variable without a value. Variable
definition means creating a new variable with the value.
Uh what the meaning of variable initialization? Are you creating variable? Accessing variable
uh accessing variable to store which value
first value. Accessing a variable to store first value is called what?
Initializing uh variable assignment means creating a accessing accessing
accessing the existing variable to store a modifier
modify to modify the existing value of the variable means storing second value
onward we call it as what assignment I repeat once again variables are already
available now I'm accessing the variable to store first value then what We have to use initialize already variable is
available. I am accessing this variable for storing second value onwards means
modifying the existing value. I have to use the what word assignment. Next variable accessing means reading. Okay.
Variable reading. Reading means storing or taking up taking the value available
in the variable. taking the value out from the variable accessing the existing variable to take its value out and using
either in validation or in calculation or for storing in another variable or
just for printing. Totally how many things are there? Four. access the existing variable to take its value
either for using in validation or in calculation or initializing another variable or for just printing is called
what variable reading variable reading tell me in variable initialization
variable assignment variable reading I should have already variable or not if variable already not there program
compiler not compile not compile compiler will throw error now tell me now intex semicolon meaning is
I want to speak in in Java English. Come on. Can you see Intex? Will you read it as a Intex semicolon?
No. If you read in Java, you never understand Java. You should read Java in Java English. What is the meaning of
Java English? The meaning of the sentence you have to read in a semicolon should not read as intex semicolon.
Background meaning you have to understand. MX equal semicolon. Variable declaration meaning
your hand should know the meaning. Your hand should do the work immediately. X memory created. I am telling to the JVM
create new memory with the name X and tell me int Y equal to 20 semicolon.
Variable definition means we are telling to the JVM create a new variable with the name Y with the value 20. And next x
= 40 variable initialization
means this with the name x there should be already declaration or definition uh
declaration already available with value or without value then we call it as assignment initialization.
Another variable memory created or not created not created another variable memory not created. What happened? This
value is going on storing in the existing memory. Understand my point? Next equal to 50. What the meaning of
it? Creating a accessing. Accessing. Accessing means with the name X the
variable declaration the previous line should be already there. Already there not there. Uh there with the name what?
X already there. Now uh this is a first time storing or second time storing. Second time storing means existing value
replace with new value. Then is it called initialization assignment? Assignment integer equal X. What is the
meaning of it? I want you to tell with respect to Jed, with respect to X, with respect to Jed, what are you doing?
I don't want in English. I want in Java English variable
declaration or definition because you are creating new variable
with value. Now with assignment you are doing that is called definition. Int
equal to X. We are defining Jed with whose value? X value. What are you doing with respect to X?
You are declaring a defining, initializing a accessing I mean initializing, assigning a reading.
Reading X value we are reading reading X means it will go to X memory taking the
existing value 50 and copying into Jed. So when you see int equal x what you
have to feel okay I am defining zed with a variable x value x variable value
reading and copying into j variable uh sx what the meaning of s x
reading x variable value and printing reading means again go to the x memory
existing value 50 taking and given to print method print method printing that
much English you are to speak If you are a duff dumb fellow sitting silently and
looking whatever I am saying then finally become what? Dumb fellow
Java dumb fellow waste fellow okay you have to speak along with me if you don't
speak along with me you will remain as a failure candidate and make me failure and make your parents failure and make
your future generation also failure see because of you how many families are suffering
not only we three me your parents and future generation because of your laziness other people are also suffering
if you get a Uh now you are going outside buying something. Huh? Tea, you are buying,
bike, you are buying, car, you are buying, uh newspaper, you are buying, some apps you are installing. That means
what? From you, from your pocket, some money going to other person. Other
person family also living or not. Uh that person with your money, he's buying some other that means another family.
It's a 3 plus 3 plus 3.
Okay. Uh now you got the job by you get job how many people you are helping three people you me your parents and
future generation and these three people because having the job and they are spending money for next three nine next
three like that the three you know becoming what bigger tree this is how
the society running nana do you know it mindless fellows this is how society
running so you No, I have a doubt in my childhood. Why Java sorry why India is a
developing country? Why government is not printing money happily?
How much of money required? We can print those money and distribute to the people. No, why they are not printing
the money? Why they are controlling printing money? Did you get this doubt anytime?
Uh if they are printing and distributing then what happened?
No one will work happily eating and sleeping. Okay. No development, nothing.
This much you know luxury life you don't get. Okay. Fine. Okay. Come back. And
now finally I gave one program also on the terminology clear explanation syntax
and sample program syntax sample program syntax sample program everything I have
given and final program also I have explained here. Uh now
finally summary on this topic. Basically we will do two things on a variable.
Number one declaration. Number two accessing. Declaration means memory creation. Accessing means access the
variable for initialization assignment and reading. For doing these three
operation existing memory will be using new memory will not be created. So there
are two rules are there. Everyone look at here for initializing and assigning variable memory should be already
available for reading variable memory sufficient value also must be there
to fill the water you need what bottle for drinking water only bottle
sufficient bottle has air can you drink the air no
what required bottle and also water in reading variable it should have also
value. So for initializing accessing rule is variable declaration must be
there for reading variable declaration and value also must be there otherwise we'll get compile time error by
following this point I gave you one sample program directly answers are there what you will do
directly answer is there now and then what you do directly you will see answer and say answer uh open notepad
Open notepad.
Okay. Now you have to tell to your brain. You should ask your brain. Do you know answer? Tell me. So hide it. Hide
and start. Tell me s a compiler not compile. What are you doing
there? Reading value. To read value what is the rule? Variable declaration must be
there. Declaration.
Okay. Next. India equal to 10. What are you doing there?
Initialization initialization and variable name equal to value.
Don't don't mix it and don't confuse my S told that is initialization. Catch
him. Huh? Okay. That is not initialization. That is definition. Definition means
declaration plus initialization both together. Okay. Uh now tell me intal= 10
definition right or wrong what happened background here
new memory created with value 10h and a correct reading now a value
reading from previous line from the memory that means background a da visualizing
a means ar going to previous line going to the da going to da da reading okay
both are right or wronger Right. Uh memory creator background memory double. Uh
wow. Super. Okay. Uh next inp
variable declaration meaning creating new memory with
without value. Are you seeing with value or without value? Okay. Okay. Then SO B
first tell me what are you doing? Reading B variable value available value
available or not available. Declaration is available value not available. So
comp B no a value.
Okay. Initially no value. Uh next B equal to 20.
Excellent. Initialization. What are the meaning of initialization?
Access the existing variable and store. Well with the name B is already variable available. Yes. Can 20 stored in that
variable? Yes. Tell me 20 storing in the previous line. B equal to 20 here new memory created.
Existing memory data is accessed. Uh SO and B
uh reading value from previously from the memory S mark again going to the B
memory. Okay. Now visualizing now tell me C equal to 30.
Why compul? First of all tell me what is the meaning of that line?
Initialization variable initialization to initialize variable with the name C
variable already declared in the previous line variable C declared or not declared. So compiler throw sens
reading variable declaration not there. So we cannot read we'll get compile time
error. Cannot find symbol variable cannot find symbol variable. Super next a equal to C
assigning a variable with C. Reading C storing in A. What the meaning of it?
Reading C storing in A. To read to access A, A declaration must be there already available. To read C, C C
declaration must be there. Available or not available? Oh, available. C equal 30.
C equal 30 not declaration that is assignment. Uh for assignment C declaration must be there not available.
A equal C compile time error cannot find symbol variable C that is error. Okay. Then what? S a error no error no error
what the value of a 30 10 understood so this is how you have to
speak understand by your own okay if you don't speak in Java English
you cannot understand Java speak in Java English what the meaning of that statement you draw memory aromox
execution flow then 100% guarantee you will pass every interview so I promise
you we will make first interview as last interview when if you also supporting me
if you walk in my footsteps then you will get the success I'm going
towards the success uh you are only standing and watching how I am working then I will go to success you will be at
the beginning line start line only you also should walk along with me what the way I'm saying the same way if you speak
you will reach success okay uh next can I create variable whenever I want as I
Okay. And tell me will you buy bottle for drinking water? You need a bottle. Will you buy the bottle every day? Why
money waste? Uh what will you do? You will buy bottle only when you want to
reuse it. Suppose you are going from your house to the school. Then while
going will you buy the bottle? No. Uh you are going from your house to for
one night journey purpose. Then will you buy a water bottle? Yes. Why? I need to
reuse the water. If you want reuse the value in the program many places then
create variable. I want to use a value or I want to use an object only one
time. Only one time I want to use don't create variable directly use that value
directly use that object. So that time and memory will be saved. Suppose I want
to print s and five. Okay. I want to print five. just want to print five then
why you create variable I1 then store five then read I1 it's a lengthy journey
s and five five directly printed if write s and i1 first i1 memory created
value five stored then i1 accessed read value substitute value give it to print
then print lot of extra steps you are doing taking time that's why what is recommended
create pass the value directly similar I want to print HK then directly S and
string object double quotes HK object is created HK reading and printing. If you
write S1 equal to string S1 equal to double code HK here extra variable memory you are creating uh S1 variable
created object created reference stored in S1 pointing extra steps then S1 S1
you write first JVM going to S1 variable from there going to object reading HK
substituted here giving to print length then printing extra statements are going on so tell me creating variable for fun
good idea bad idea because it's consuming more memory consuming more
time. So if you want to reuse a value or object multiple time then only create
variable and store. Suppose you take our own class object example E1 equal new example. Tell me now here E1 variable
created new example new object 3030 created with variables XY with value 000
replace with 1020. Uh why I created example class object I want read X value
and Y value in the down I am writing SOP and E1.X X how many times I am I'm using
this object even one time for accessing which variable X what I told you if you
want to use an object only one time create variable directly use object
here which is object E1 is object new example object new example tell me E1 is
nothing but new example dox is nothing but new example dox come
on come on digest this syntax new syntax you are learning again Example E1 equal to new example. What
the meaning of it? Here E1 is a variable holding the object. Then down when I
write E1 dox E1 holding object we are going reading the X value and substituting.
E1 is nothing but what? New example. Can I directly write new example dox?
Come on. Come on. Look at here. Here down I have written what? New example.x in place of E1. In place of E1 I have
written directly what? New example is it allowed or not allowed? Allowed valid syntax only. Then what the meaning of
new example? Another new object created or not? As many times new keyword you use repeatedly. Those many times new
objects are created. One more new object. Hello. New keyword will go to example class to create memory to only X
variable or to all variables. All variables all with all variables available in example class. Variables
memory created XY. and then taking the reference 4040 back dot 4040x
then JVM will go to 4040 object reading the x value 10 substituted printing on
console so tell me which is the first first operation or second operation second because access variable is not
there so tell me can I access the values available in the object directly without assigning to the variable yes but what
is the problem here if I store in E1 using E1 dot I can access both x Why?
That means can I reuse the object or not? If I take second syntax new example
x tell me I create an object with assignment or without assignment with
reference variable or without referenced variable. Without reference variable so new example we call it as unreferenced
object. What we call tell me first E1 equal to new example. This 3030 object
is called referenced object. Unreferenced object referenced object. If I create object assigned to a
variable is called referenced object. If you create object without assigning to the variable is called unreferenced
object. Tell me which object is reusable for accessing multiple members. Referenced object or unreferenced
object. Referenced object. I want to access both X and Y. Then assign to the variable. Reuse the variable. I want to
access only one member from the object directly. Right? Unreferenced object. Dox. Everyone understand? Now look at
this program. Same program I given. We must when must we create variable? When we provide a name to a value. When we
need to provide name to a value or to an object. When we need to reuse a value or an object then we must create variable.
Array variable is nothing but name to a value and name to a object. Okay. We must not create variable just for fun at
least a performance issue because it takes more memory and time. And tell me here I more time five directly. H S1
more time directly. HK less time. uh new example I can reuse and below here new
example dox new example dox two times the x value coming from same object or
two different objects are two different object first time
first time x and y values are coming from same object second time both are
coming from same object or different object are uh 40 40 and 50/50 okay as
many times new keyword executed those many times it is executed so this The first story about variable need of this
chapter for storing value to the object for storing value to the operation. What
is a variable? Why variable? Syntax to create variable sample program to show primitive and reference variable
creation. Difference between primitive variable reference variable. Variable creation terminology. When should we
create variable problem? If you create variable unnecessary all seven points about variable understood then where
where can we create variable? The next topic we started types of variables 10.1
this is 10.0 zero introduction 10.1 types of variables and tell me how many
types of variable Java support I mean where can we create variable we can
create variable either inside a class or inside a method can we create variable
at class level sorry can we create variable at a Java file level directly no if you directly create we will get
compile time error then what should I do where we are allowed to create variable
only inside a class are inside a method. We cannot declare a variable at a file level directly leads to compile time
error. Class or interface or enmr record expected. Why? Because we have only two scopes. Scope one Java file level not a
second scope class level available. Scope three metal level available. Uh next types of variables. Uh how many
types of variables? We have two types. Class level variables and method level variables. What the purpose of class
level variables? Class level variables are meant for storing object values. Method level variables are meant for
storing operation values because class represent object method represent what operation. Then class level variables
are again divided into two types static variables and non-static variables. Method level variables are again divided
into two types parameters and local variables. Uh modifiers PDP SFTV you
don't know I didn't explain modified chapter 8. Okay don't worry about modifiers I'll explain you. Uh then next
so if inter ask a question what is the answer I must give to the interviewer
that file I didn't uploaded
okay if Indra ask me question what should I answer how many types of variables are there based on the data
type we have two types of variables primitive type and reference non-primitive
primitive data type and reference data type. If you say non-primitive data
type, if I am there in the entry room, I will bring out from outside one big knife
and make you pieces because you are a number one worst fellow not allowed to come to software industry. You are
polluting the software industry with bad terminologies. Huh? So based on the data type we have
two types primitive types and reference type both primitive and reference type. Based on the place we declare the
variable based on the place we declare variable both primitive types and
reference types are divided into four types. What are the four types? Static
non-static parameters local variable. Static non-static variables are class
level. Non parameter and local variables are method level.
Now what is a static variable? There are totally eight points you should understand with respect to static
variable. Tell me whenever I say static variable which place you are visualizing inside a class or inside method.
Outside of the methods inside the class the place visualization is very important. Sir you are teaching
yesterday chapter only again today I decided to teach yesterday topic only because of good Friday and because
of Saturday you idiots not attended class now right and there are some points regular
class I didn't cover intentionally because I know good Friday effect will be there okay and tomorrow today onwards
new chapter methods and constructors you will torture me like anything so if you give importance to the good Friday
importance to the word importance to the lover then your life will be 100%
spoiled god never ask you come to the temple come to the church come to the masid I
will bless you openly I'm telling you no god will tell come to the come to me
I will bless you if anybody is saying that god is telling come to here then he
is a bluffing person he's doing his job for his job purpose he's asking you to come to the church come to the mas come
to The temple. Hey, are you getting to your mind? You are a
student. What is your temple church class?
Java god. Seriously, I'm telling change your mind.
No god asked. When God was there, Rama is there. Uh
Jesus is there. Allah is there. He is a normal persons like us. They also mingle with us and walking with us. Why they
are called to god? Because they help others and you know serving to the others and they have spread some good
thing to the people how to live in the society. That's why they are called god. You also do the same. You will be also
called as what? God. Really not joking.
Okay. Why n is called god? Why is called god in telugu? Tilu states because they
help for the poor people that's why people are praying them
still they people are remembering because they helping the people you help to the people people will praise you and
people will say you are the god and for you also one temple will be constructed
I'm telling you again and again the people who say come to the temple god will bless you come to the church Jesus
will bless you come to the mas Allah will bless So they are doing their job. If you stop going to temple, they lose
their job. They will come onto the roads. Realize there are worse fellows,
brainless fellows. They are doing their job. That is their job. Like me, if you
stop coming to my class, my job is lost. Now I am the you know that temple person, a
masid person, church person. Understand? If you stop coming, I lose
my job. That's why what I'll say motivate come to the class. Come to the class. Okay. Java will bless you. Come. Java Java is your god.
So change your mind. You are a student. You are only responsible for doing your
duty not god duty. Your parents are there to pray the god behalf of you
also. And believe me, remember me, God will be with the person who will do his
duty and who will help to the others, not to the person who is coming to the church mashid and temple.
Last Friday and Saturday I got too much angry. How much I got angry? You know
this week onwards I decided to skip all the main points. really I decided I'm not going to teach
depth you give importance to your god now not to the java now when you are not giving
importance to java why should I give the importance to you Saturday 10% of the student there in the
class what is your job why you join the course
when you are not giving importance to the class why should I teach Why should I spend my Why should I waste my money?
If I spend one day, one day if I spend for you extra, I'm losing thousands of
money. You know time value.
Money will be calculated on time. Hourly based payment will be there. If you
waste 1 hour, $10, $20 will be paid per hour. Why should I waste my money for you
useless fellows? When you don't give importance to Java, why should I waste your time for you?
When you show interest, I'm also having the interest to teach you. When you're not showing interest, happily giving
importance to the god and going to the temple church mas then why I should give importance to you? Why should I teach
you? Happily, I will also close the batch fast and I'll start the new batch. If I start new batch now, it's a season
summer as minimum thousand students will be there in my class.
non-season 500 season thousand people will be there in the class 1,000 into
calculate how much money I can get and 9:00 slot
very hot slot very prime slot season non-season doesn't matter minimum
500 will be there in the class 500 into count the money how much we can get for nourish ID
point by point neatly detailed way and drawing the diagrams and explaining
still you are giving importance to your personal works personal life feeling Java is okay secondary
then why did you take the course admission feel ashamed
I'm telling you you cannot find a faculty like me you go and attend other faculty classes
you'll realize okay College lecturers already you know
right everyone is working for their salary purpose I am working for your career
purpose if money is my priority happily I can work in the development four times more
I'll get the salary what I'm getting in arishad but still I'm working here for yours
successful life purpose for your parents successful life purpose
3 months continuously without missing one day class also if you cannot continue then you are such a worst,
wasteless, waste, useless, irresponsible.
One course 3 months without missing the class. If you cannot attend classes, then why you are here? What the purpose
of your life? Just better stop living here.
And core Java, it is the most important for your entire next coming 40 years of your life. Spring boot missed the class.
No problem. Oracle miss that class. No problem. HTML lives the class. No problem. But if you miss the core Java,
such a irresponsible, mindless fellow you are. Cava is the base for your entire Java
career. Core Java is the base.
Don't do this mistake. This is the last warning. festival all days coming missing the
class if your father mother says that nana bji kamra if you don't know I cannot celebrate
first you scold them why did you send to hyderabad me then you cannot leave me
this love is spoiling now the childrens pampering at what age you have to pamper
childhood up to sixth class you are to pampered up to fifth class not even sixth class also from sixth class
onwards parents should beat the childrens to study
It's not only your batch. I'm seeing every batch. One month completed. Then mother will call. Nana no come to home.
Na once. Okay. It's been one month I have seen you. Video call is there. Daily seeing now
then why they are sending you to Hyderabad offline students daily minimum 10 20
people are sending message to that man I want online class why you need online classes
what are you cannot come from your room to here
like a pig sleeping in the roaming on the bed. That's decide.
Now tell me now what is static variable? What is non-static variable? What is
parameter? What is local variable? When to choose a static variable, when to choose non-static variable, when to
choose parameter, when to choose local variable. This clarity if you don't have you cannot write program. Remember
objectoriented programming means develop a program
around one object and its data then think about what implementations
operations. When you are not decided object and its data you cannot write
program that means class instance and variables. These three topics are you
thoroughly understand get full visualization what is happening background writing next level of Java is
after all very easy so focus tell me now what is a static variable whenever I say
static variable or non-static variable or a program you have to visualize a program template here onwards program
template is very important class open bracket closed bracket inside a method
which method you visualize main method Method means normal method not main
method. Main method is not meant for writing logic. Main method is meant for executing the class where you write
logic. Normal method and visualize normal method as what v method name your
known method parenthesis open bracket closed bracket closed bracket. Okay. You
have to visualize the program template class method scope open bracket closed
bracket. When I say static variable, what you have to visualize? Outside of the method,
inside the class means before main method scope, after method scope, after
method also we can write. There is no rule that in C language you should create all variables before methods. But
in Java, you can create variables either before method or after method, not
inside the method. Okay? either outside of the method, either before method or after method, create a variable, a
variable declared. Declared means
data type variable name semicolon. Okay, a variable declared inside a class
outside of all methods with the keyword static is called static variable. Visible is an example class example open
bracket int semicolon int b semicolon are they static variable and non-static
variable why non-static variable uh visualize static static int semicolon
static inb semicolon okay next second static variable is used for tell me once
you create variable variable must be provided memory now how many copies of memory we can get in Java ei either one
or more than one. One time you declare variable. Java is a dynamic programming
language. Dynamic programming language. Why it is called dynamic programming
language? Because you declare variable one time and we can provide multiple
copies of memory to this variable on demand. You can request JVM provide one
more copy, provide one more copy, provide one more copy. uh now I want to
tell to JVM a JVM only one copy memory then which keyword I have to use static.
So when I should declare what is static variable? Why static variable? Static variable is used for providing only one
copy memory common to all objects of a class for storing a value common to all
objects and all methods of a class. Uh now tell me you have created a class
example open bracket closed bracket with the two static variables static in a semicolon static in B semicolon then
down I am creating three four methods M1 method M2 method M3 method and tell me
how many copies of memory available for A and B one copy this one copy memory AB
can I access in M1 M2 M3 methods yes can I access with E1 E23 dot yes what is
E1 E1, E2, E3 objects. So if you if you declare me variable as a static, this
variable contains a memory one copy memory common to all objects, common to
all methods. That means static variable I can access because already it has a
memory. Now I can access directly by its name A or I can access static variable
memory provided with respect to class object method.
static variable static variable memory provided with respect to class. So it can be accessible by using class name
dot example. A I can access the variable a directly or I can access by using
class name dot example dot static variable meant for storing value of an
object common to all objects. That means static variable value belongs to whom now object E1 also belongs to whom?
Object E2 also belongs to whom? object E3. So how to access E1.A, E2A, E3.A.
Understand my point? Uh look at here. Static variable has only one copy memory. Static variable get memory
automatically by JVM. When the class is loaded into JVM, when it will get memory
when class loaded into JVM, is a static variable memory waiting until object created? No. By the time object is
created already memory available, yes. Is it is it waiting for until method is called? No. Is it memory already
available? Yes. Tell me. Static variable first executed. Main method first executed.
Static variable first executed and then main method executed. Then once the variable you declared memory allocated
then further what are the operations I have to do? Initialize, assign, read. Uh
for initializing, assigning and reading I have to access that variable. Now how many ways we can access static variable?
In a program we can access static variable in four ways. What are the four ways? directly by its name as SOP and
branch by using class name reference class name dot bank name bank account dot branch by using object reference
account one dot branch by using object name account one dot account to two dot account three dot tell me for all three
accounts what is the branch I'm repeat so branch variable value same for all three objects also by using null
reference variable in literal chapter somewhere I have used the word called what null if I create a reference
variable able by assigning null bank account account one equal to null then this variable is called object reference
variable or null reference variable null reference variable there are two types of reference variables are there object
reference variable null reference variable bank account account one equal to null what is this variable null
reference variable bank account account two equal to new bank account it is object referenced variable uh now I
created bank account one equal to null tell me account to variable is of what type bank account class. In a bank
account class, a branch variable already has a memory or not. Can I access it or not? Yes. So, how many ways we can
access a static variable? Four ways. Branch account bank account branch
object branch null reference variable dot branch. Any of the four ways we can
access. Al people tell me what is a static variable? A variable that is declared
inside the class outside of the methods with the keyword static is called static variable. Can I create static variable
inside the method? If I try to create any compul error. Yes. Illegal start of
expression. When should I create a variable as a static variable? When we want to store a value common to all
objects and common to all methods by providing one copy memory. Then we
should create variable as static. You must by heart each sentence. My explanation completed after going to
room. You have to by heart all these eight points. Every day you have to speak all these eight points until core
java completed. Every day we are going to use these eight points. Next how many copies are memory available for static
variable? One copy. when the static variable get memory
before uh while when class is loading into JVM uh static variable memory created we
don't need to create object we don't need to call methods tell me now am I a
static variable or non-static variable if you consider me then am I a static
variable or non-static variable static variable why
I am common to All students I am common to all students. So I am a static
variable. Tell me being a static variable I should have subject in my
brain after I come to the class before I come to the class. And objects are
before creating only I should have subject in my mind. Now what am I doing? After all you people come then I'm
saying wait I will learn something here. I will type something here and then I will teach. Will you agree? Will you
accept me? No. Then what? Look at me and say well first you learn in your room and come to the class because I am the
common to all. So static member should provide a memory before objects creation
before methods calls itself. Okay. So tell me static variable provided memory
when class is loaded into JVM. Do as a programmer do I need to do any extra work? No. Just declare a static
automatically memory created. Once variable is available, once variable memory available, I want to store value,
read value, modify value. For that purpose, I have to access variable. How many ways we can access static variable?
Static variable already has the memory. So we can access directly by its name,
by class name, by object reference and also by using null reference. Everyone
understand? Up to these five points any confusion? Let me show you these points in the system. Oh,
Again
I'm reminding you this is the last warning. Okay. If you are giving importance to
festival because this week again we have this week next week again we have
festivali is there Ramjan is there. Ramjan may be holiday will be there. Okay. Because Ramjan means only one
festival management may give holiday for Ramjan. uh Wugadi is there then next R
Somi is there okay we don't give festival for these for the we don't give
holidays for these festivals okay if you are planning going to home ammo bugadi
is a first holiday for Telugu people new year we should celebrate otherwise our life will be closed
parents are there to celebrate you no need to join join you know nowadays uh
even marriages are happening on YouTube. So see what is that video call. Wife
will be somewhere else, husband will be somewhere else and that is called thali is connecting to the mobile
you know now right parents are available somewhere else and doing a talu from where giving the blessings from to the
mobile forest fellows.
So change your attitude. I'm creating class example. Uh now I'm creating a variable static in a equal to 10.
Another variable static in b equal to 20. Two static variables I created. Now
uh okay one minute. I want to take these two variables here because I want access
directly by their name. Okay. I'll do one create class as example and creating
two static variables x and y. Uh now inside main method I am trying to access
that a variable directly. Hello. Hello. Not hello. Tell me this is a
accessing now. If you want access variable declaration must be available. Memory must be available. Value must be
available. Compile. Searching for a variable declaration. Available. Yes.
Searching for memory. Available. Yes. Static means what? Memory is there. Value available. Yes. Compile
successfully. Yes.
and executed successfully and we got output error. Selected and execute. Now
what is output coming? 10. Understood? Uh why we are getting value? Because there is a memory. Now remove this
remove static when remotes detect variable declaration available declaration available. Value available
but memory not available. If you create variable at class level memory not provided automatically we got error
non-static variable a cannot be referenced from static context and then
now I'm removing this variable declaration then we get compile time error cannot find symbol cannot find
symbol declaration not there cannot find symbol declaration is there but memory is not there then non-static variable
okay now declaration there memory is there value is there value will get direct
Next point, what are the different ways we can access variable? I can access variable
directly by its name or I can access by using class name dot this a variable
declared in the class. So compile successfully uh executed successfully.
10 is coming. Even I can also access by using object uh where I can create
object here. Example E1 equals to new example. Tell me this object. Object
means what? Visibleize. Come on. Object means OBJ E C
what? Circle with a reference 10 10 stored inside even. Tell me even
pointing circle has any variable inside. What variables memory provided in the
circle? Non-static variables. Tell me A is B. A and B are static or non-static.
H is the new keyword will go uh new keyword will go to example class. Top to
bottom searching for what variables? Uh A and B are what variables? Does they
have memory already? Uh is the new keyword provide memory again? No. Silently coming back and written the 10
and store it in even. Now even pointing circle is now empty. Now blank empty not
blank object. Empty object. Uh empty object is created and stored in even. Uh
but observe system dot out dot print ele can I access E1 a
E1. A yes then when I write E1 A JVM will go to E1 pointing object in that
object a variable memory available? No. Then will JVM throw error? No no no
because E1 is having two things. Number one type number two object. Now with the
event I can search for the members in two places. Number one in object in the sorry in the class and in the object.
Tell me I am a faculty. I have a permission to search in two places. Number one in my desk. Number two in the
classroom. You have a permission to search only in
one place. Can you come and search in my desk? Madre. Okay. Only you can search in your classroom in your pocket. That's
it. Right. I have two permission. uh that means E1 is a variable that can
search for the members in the class and also in the object. First where it will search when I write E1. A first search
in no class first search in class because the members memory provided in
the object from the class only. So when I write E1 A JVM will go to E1 first. E1
is a what type? example then it will go to example class. In example class a
variable is found as what type? Static. Static means it is available in object in the class only.
Do I require to go to object? Not required. Not required. Suppose if JVM first searching in the object may be
available may not be available. If not available it has to come to what class and two levels of searching time based
no if it is available in the class in the object 100% will not be there. So
what is the searching process? When I write E1 A first search for that variable in which E1 class in E1 class A
variable is found as a static then directly read from there control one compile control 2 executed output coming
uh output coming what 10 okay next I'm creating example E2 equal to null and
tell me null is a object reference reference it just null reference E2 pointing to any object no E2 da created
with what value null now if I write copy paste uh E1 dot E2 do a if you write
what happen compile control 2 what is the output will come 10
write on this program continuation to last program what are the different ways we Access
static variable continuous last program in your notes
first. Make it fast. What are the different ways we can access static variable?
The fifth one resistant
don't write enter notes only fifth point.
One second.
That's good.
Today I'm starting new batch. So I have to stop your class by 10:50. Right on first. Can't continue up to 11.
Not slowly. No, don't behave like
neatly not required. If you understand that's more than enough.
This week is very important week. This week every day program compulsory
to practice by drawing memory in your rough book. As it is program practice five times
system practice not at all required system practice all that I'm doing in the classroom in front of you. You have
to digest that points in your mind. Feel you are in the enter room. In interior room you have to answer by writing
programs not by typing programs in the system. You have to explain the programs to the interviewer. The flow of
execution what what happening background in the program you have to speak in front of interviewer. So practice five
times in your notebook itself. Buy one rough book 20 rupees 30 rupees rough book you buy.
How can I go from one class to another class? Lakshmi,
how can I connect one class to another class? How can I talk to your uh uh friend
there in different place?
Completed. Uh, below program explains all above points.
Below program explains all above points.
Hashmi, did you get answer?
Uh, you didn't answer. If you get answer, how do I know?
cannot access. You must access her.
You must access one class members from another class. Then can you talk to your friend who is
living in another place? How are you talking directly? Not
through mobile. Who is the mobile here?
No think you will get answer.
Next Sunday onwards you will have classes. Sundays also you will have classes.
This coming Sunday will not be there. Next Sunday
coming Sunday is 7th. No uh 14th onwards continuously. Three Sundays
14th to 30th. No holidays. Ramjan is on what day?
Ma I think in this week Ramjan will be completed. No 11th.
Okay. Expecting 11th. Okay. So yeah Ramjan day will be holiday I'm
guessing. Not confirming. Okay. Maybe there. Uh so except Ramjan you don't
have any other holidays. If management given any holiday, I will
take class. Understand? No holiday. If management given a holiday for Uadi,
I will take class. If management given holiday for Sriami, I will take class.
No holidays because Java is our God. We are to pray God Java until we get job. I
strongly believe God will be with the person who is doing
his job. God always says do your duty I
will bless you. Don't come to me I will not bless bless you. Do your duty I will
bless you. That's it. Okay. Next. With whom more money will be there with whom
God will be helped. A person who help others God will help that person. So no sir in
my village some pitionary is there some kjus is there he's having so much money but check always he is hospitalized
or some other problems may come that means god will take out from his money from his pocket in some other ways. Okay
so just believe my statement do your job god will be with you. Uh Java example
tell me Java example. First step is what? Class loading. Remember a flow of
execution. Uh second step. Second step static into A. Third step
into B. Fourth step A = 40. Fifth step
B = 20. Sorry, A= 10, B= 20. Draw memory first static in a
A memory created with a default value zero. Next static in B.
B memory created with the default value zero.
Next sir,
a = 10
0 replace with 10.
Uh next b = 20
z replace with
uh next up sixth step
main method. Yeah, you can ignore arcs now onwards.
S A reading a value from
memory output is 10.
Next example a 10.
uh here example E1 equal new example very important E1 memory created
write memory as I am writing array not this angular slope no the place where I
am writing memory there only right don't show your talent object should be outside of this class
this da this box is what class memory this red color outside da this da is
what class memory This is what method memory and this is object memory. Outside of the class memory, you have to
draw 10 10 empty object.
Example class empty object
What is the time? Huh?
10:35 11:35. But my system is not
my shocked. Okay. Then why admin not coming to ask me to stop classing?
H okay next listen listen listen listen very important E1 is having two things
number one type number two object with the reference tenant it is pointing to
object because of the type it is also has a permission to pointing to
variables static variables understood so static it can pointing to
both non-static variables object And also what static variables write on aroma
or else you can place both in one box.
Place AB variables in one box.
Right arrow mark to that box.
So a referenced variable can access both static and non-static members because of
its type and reference. Write this E1 arrow marked to left side
arrow marked to right side. Then E1 A what value we will get? 10.
Next example E2 E2 variable with what value? Null. Uh
all the people tell me now why I am choosing four number fourdigit number
for reference because the default reference is null. How many digits are
there? Four. That's why four understand. And why I start with one? Because first
object always start with one only. That's the reason. Uh next s uh one
minute this E2 variable is a what type? Then it is also has a permission to
access. It is also has a permission to access static variable. Right arrow mark to the
static variable. So both E1 E2 variables are pointing to same variables.
Then E2 A is also output 10.
Complete main method complete class going uh what this AB variables memory is
called class context.
It is called class context. What this instance is called?
Instance context. Context means memory
class context. Instance context.
So everyone understand a static variables accessing four ways.
If you have any doubts you can ask online students
side you right. A reference variable
can access both static variable and
non-static variable because of its
type in bracket left side and
object reference in bracket right side
static variables belongs to
class non-static variables
belongs to instance or object.
right on this point somewhere wherever you have space.
Is it visible?
then completed.
Okay, look at here. I'm writing one more program class example.
In this class again I'm creating static variable
okay one variable sufficient okay flow you understood already so one variable sufficient I am creating one method
called M1 possible I'm creating another method called M2 possible
inside M1 can I access static variable a static variable meant for storing value
common to all objects and also common to All methods from M1
plus A from M2 plus A
from main method. Mm means from main method plus A. Now tell me
what is the output of this program?
Uh tell me a= 10. M1 method, M2 method, main method output
from mm 10. Uh from M1 from M2 why
uh not called
from main method then only will come. M1 M2 will not come because they are not called. So what the flow of execution
first static variable A a memory created directly control go to main method. M1
M2 are not executed. If you want to execute userdefined methods, what should I do? We must call it from main method.
In M1 method, I call in M2 method, I mean M1 method I call M2 method also I
call. Then output will be from main 10 from M1 10
from M2 also 10.
Okay. Now tell me the flow of execution of this program.
Static in a memory created with value zero. A = 10
zero replace with 10. Uh then control go to main method.
One class loading I'm now ignoring. Okay. two and then main method is three. Then
because of this a it will go to class reading
and printing output 10 from m and 10 will be there just I'm
writing 10 then next line you call m then what happen
now control will go to when you call method control will go to the method
this is step number four in four step a means But again same
variable what is the output we will get 10. Okay. Then next again control will come
here. This is a fourth step. Uh M2 method you are calling. Control will go to M2 method.
M2 method reading what? Again it will also come from where? Same memory output
is 10. And now this is step number five. So static variable memory is common to
all methods. So every method will access the value of the static variable from
the same memory. Right? Static variable memory.
Static variable memory is common to
static variable memory is common to all methods
means the same static variable memory is
accessed means the same static variables memory is accessed.
from all methods. Rum all methods.
Uh write on program first and then execution diagram first. Go program ask
first. We have to write one more program. Please write first.
completed.
Uh now tell me you and your friend both are sharing same bottle.
Understood summer season. No summer season means what? Body should be cool. for that. H
Sprite bottle not beer bottle. Okay. Ah. So you bought
one sprite bottle. One lit bottle or halfl bottle. While going now the room one half lit sprite bottle you bought
and went. Then in the room you placed it and went to the washroom. And your friend who is there already there in the
room what you will do? He will complete half the bottle and place there silently. By the time you
come back from the washroom, full bottle there, half bottle, half bottle, then looking at different
tell me when a sprite bottle sharing by the two friends if one friend did
modification affecting to the another friend or not. Now who is the first friend? M1. Who is the second friend?
M2. Who is the sprite bottle? Static variable. Uh now M1 method is modifying
the values of the A. Are these modification affected to the M2 method and main method? Yes. Because static
variable memory is common to all methods. If you modify static variable in one method that modification affected
to another variables also sorry another methods also. Understand right. So
tomorrow we will write program on this point. Uh listen today everyone should
by heart these eight points by the time you are coming to the class tomorrow all
these eight points available here must read and come tomorrow everyone should
capable of speak along with me variable declaration definition initialization
assignment and reading that five points plus these eight points totally 13
points all these 13 points you must buy hard and come tomorrow if We practice static variable program execution flow
with these eight points. Then tomorrow with non-static members program parameters local variables program and
finally one project we are developing the bank project. So then you will feel comfortable and easy. Understand? Uh
thank you. That's all for today class.

