ript


Static variable static variable memory allocated when class is loaded into JVM.
Static variables memory first all static variables declaration executed the default value then the value is assigned
and stored. Next how many ways we can access static variable? Three four ways.
Directly by its name by using class name by using object reference null reference. Then what is the memory
structure? If I access directly directly going and taking if I access class name also class name dot. If we create a
object reference variable or null reference variable both are having access to the static variables because
the referenced variable contains the type. T type is nothing but class name. Okay. Uh next we discussed about uh
static variable we can access either inside first method, second method,
third method. Static variable memory is shared. Static variable memory is shared
to all methods available in the class. That means in the all methods of the current class we can access. Then what
is the value we will get? Whatever value available same value we will get. What are the memory? What the memory diagram
we have learned? First a variable memory created here and then from M1 method
from M2 method from main method always it is go to the same memory diagram because static variable memory is shared
by multiple methods. If you modify static variable value is that modification affected to another methods
available in the class. Yes. But from what point of non the modification
effect is started after this method is executed. If this method is not executed, modification affected or not
affected, not affected. Okay. What is the memory structure? We have understood
first when class is loaded into JVM. Static variable memory created. Then JVM
will go to main method. In main method when you read A, what is the available value? 10. M1 method I call M1 method a
value is what? 15. Uh now 15 is stored inside a variable. Listen carefully. The
very important point. Many students are feeling a equal to 15 means storing value within the M1 method. That is
wrong answer. Here you should verify is it declared or assigned? Assigned.
Assigned means what? We have to access variable. So we have to access variable. First search for a variable memory in M1
method not available. Then go to class then store here. When control come out of this method is that value removed
from the variable? No. The value is still available. uh then how long that value is available until this variable
is destroyed that value will be available. Control go to next method M2 main method in main method when you read
what is the value available 15 you call M2 method control come to M2 method in M2 method also a value what we will get
15. So static variable if you modify static variable in one method that
modification is affected to another methods available in the JVM. So these are the points we discussed and next we
try to understand one more important point. How can we access static variable from one class to another class to
access static variable from one class to another class can access directly by its name? No. Okay. First of all can access
static variable of one class in another class. Yes, possible. Uh if you want to access static variable of one class from
another class, how many ways we can access? Only three ways. Number one, uh directly possible. No. By class name or
object reference or null reference object reference of which class? Current class of static variables class
static variable class object. Static variable class reference variable with null reference variable we should
create. Okay. Then next what we discussed lifetime and scope. Lifetime is nothing but where it is created.
Scope means where we can access. With that we completed our static variable related points. Then we started
non-static variable. What is a non-static variable? A variable that is created outside of the method without
static keyword is called what? Non-static variable. When is non-static variable has memory by default? No.
Non-static variable get memory when just by loading the class. No. Non-static variable get memory only when object is
created. Okay. If I create non-static variable trying to access inside main method directly by its name, is it
possible? No. We'll get compile time error. Non-static variable cannot be referenced from static context. So
non-static variable we can access only in one way by using object reference. So
we have to create object we have to create object and using object we have to access. What happened
is this line a printing line memory creation line. So you must work on
memory creation when you see this line. Tell me the step number. First step class is loaded. Second step searching
for static variables. Searching for static variables not found. Then going for main method in main method.
What is example even object or variable? Variable variable memory created. Then
new example creates object with X variable memory. Then store 10 and new
keyword return the reference and store it in E1. SOP and E1.X reading X value
from E1 object. Okay. Next point. Can we create
can we create multiple objects from the same class? Yes, we can create multiple objects from the same class. If I create
multiple objects from the same class, non-static variable is provided memory. One copy of multiple copies, multiple
copies. Here E1 circle X variable. E2 circle X variable. E1.X means read X
value from first object. E2.x means read X value from second object. Is this meaning E1.x E2.x Same for compiler and
JVM. No, for compiler search for X variable declaration in E1 class example. Search for X variable
declaration in E2 class example. Uh for a JVM for compiler compiler for both
statements will go to class example search for X variable declaration. But whereas come to the JVM. JVM will not
consider declaration. It consider what memory. JVM will search for X variable
memory in E1 pointing object 10. E2.X X means X variable search for X variable
memory in E2 pointing object 2020 okay next point uh once you create non-static
variable like static variable I can modify non-static variable also if I modify non-static variable is that
modification affecting to other objects no because non-static variable is
provided separate copy memory uh what is the memory structure between static variable and non-static variable static
variable has one copy memory memory common to all objects. Non-static variable has separate copy memory for
every object. Then if you modify static variable by using one object, is that
modification affected to the second object? Yes, because static variable memory common to both objects. If you
modify non-static variable by using one object, is that modification affected to another object? No, because both objects
are contained separate copy of memory.
All right. E1.15 stored in the static variable which is pointing by both
objects. Non-static variable modification stored in the first object no effect to second object. So these are
the points we have completed in yesterday class. Can expect everyone remember
what is the output from below program.
One water bottle or sprite bottle or beer bottle, whatever the bottle. Okay.
Can hold by two people.
What the problem? A object. A object can hold by two
people. Yes. More than two people. Yes.
Keep that point in the mind. Try to answer this. Right on. Class example.
I want you answer this question by drawing memory not with your eyes and hand.
Neat diagram. I want
here. Totally three memories are there,
right? Number one static variable. Number two,
local variable. E1, E2, E3 are class level variables are local variables.
E1, E2, E3 are what variables? Class level variables.
Class level variables. You declare E1, E2, E3 variables inside main method.
They are referenced variables of what type? Local.
And then here objects. And now three memory boxes you draw like
this. Static variable memory you draw here. Local variables here. Objects here. Proper arrow marks create. And let
me know output.
completed. Huh? Uh first class is loaded into JVM. Uh here what happened? A
variable memory created with zero. Do you have any other static variable? No. zero replace with 10.
At this stage you should not have any confusion should not wait for me to draw memory.
Uh next main method execution started inside main method you created even
variable. Tell me even variable memory created with the default value or
without value. Without value and even variable is what type? example because of example it can
pointing to static variable memory. That arrow mark should create and equal
to new example. New object is created here. Reference is what? 10 10 x
variable memory created with a default value zero. Replace with value 20
and 20 stored in E1 variable. Because of reference, nobody's pointing to this
object. So tell me a reference variable has permission to access both static and
non-static variables. It can pointing to static variable because of the type. It
can pointing to non-static variable because of the reference.
Next line example E2. E2 variable is created.
Uh E2 is what? Why type of variable? Example, it also has a permission to
access static variable and
object 2020. X variable memory created with what value?
Zero replace with 20. 2020 stored in E2. Because of 2020, it is pointing to
object. Clear? Next. Control is going to next line. E3
variable created. E3 also is what type of variable? Example pointing to here.
And next equal to what is there? N E2. That means E3 pointing to E2. Now
uh uh E3 equal to E2 means is E2 stored in E3. Now E2 value stored in E3. Now
this is variable assignment. When I assign a variable by another variable, first variable value is the copy into
second variable. What the value of E2? 2020. What is stored here? 2020. 2020 is
the reference of E2. Now, reference of the object. Tell me an object can referenced by
multiple reference variables at a time. Yes. Uh how can we create one object referenced by multiple reference
variable? Very simple. Create the object. Assign the reference to first
variable. Same variable you assign to multiple reference variables. Same reference is copied in all reference
variables and pointing to the same object. Understand? Uh then once you assign the same reference, both
variables are pointing to the same object. Okay. Next line. E1. A E2. A E3.
A all are going to which object? I mean which memory? Same memory. What the value? 10 10 10
uh E1.x E2.x E3 do.x are all three going to same object or E1.x2 same its own
object E2.x and E3.x2 text to same object 2020 20 understand
when I write E2 equal to 15 E2 A 10 replace with 15 is this modification
affected to another reference variables yes next E2X= 16 E2 dox 20 replace with
16 is this modification affected to another objects another referenced variables pointing to
same object. Understand my English.
I'm not asking smell can he come to your house and eat the food that sweet I'm
saying your mother prepared one sweet in your house this house is nothing but
object and then tell me mother prepared sweet is that sweet available for other
family members other other family members no same family other members yes
understand uh now tell Here what is the output we'll get for all three variables
same value 15 uh what we'll get here value for E1 dox
20 E2 E3 understand our topic uh now onwards draw
memory like this so that it will be easy for you
static variable class context local variable method context object Objects
instance context non-static variable objects instance context. So draw like this. It will be more easy for you to
understand the memory diagrams.
Okay. Now
any doubts in this program? No doubt sir paka this one program if
you work uh with full focus then any question asked in the interview you can answer
written test exam easily you can pass.
Okay with this we completed static and non-static variables points. Let's see
now all entry questions
types of variables class level static variable completed non-static variable just now completed I read all the points
What is a non-static variable? A variable declared outside of all methods
at a class level without using static keyword is called non-static variables. A non-static variable is also called as
instance variable because it get memory with respect to an instance of this class. It also called as a field
property attribute. Static variable is called class variable also called as field property attribute.
Non-stratic variable is the method for providing separate copy of memory in each instance of this class for storing
a value specific to one individual object separately. Non-static variable can have multiple copies of memory for
each object separately in this object's instance. We can access non-static
variable only in one way that is by using object reference. For example,
account one account number. If you access non-static variable by using directly its name or by using class name
we will get compile time error. Non-static variable cannot be referenced from static context. If you access
non-static variable by using null reference variable we will not get compile time error but we'll get null
pointer exception. Bank account one equal to null snn account one dot
account number it leads to null pointer exception. Now try to visualize the diagram. Account one variable da created
with what value? Null. When I write account one account number last class I told you first compiler go to account
one class account one object class object. First JVM will go to class
then verify the declaration of the variable. If it is a static
then it will read the from class itself. If it is a non-static variable then it will go to object pointing by account
one variable with the help of the reference. Right? Uh now repeat again when I write account one dot account
number compiler searching for account number variable in which class? Account one class. What the account one class?
Bank account. In the bank account class account number variable static or non-static
come on you know already non-static variable. Non-static means where it has to go and read. Account one pointing
object. Tell me account one variable pointing to object or pointing to null.
Null means object just variable just variable. With that null JVM can go to
further any place to access account number variable. No because account one variable doesn't have memory with
respect to account one variable. Then JVM throws what exception? Null pointer exception. So how many ways we can
access non-static variable? Only one way by using object. How many ways we can
access static variable? Four ways. Because it has already memory individual memory. We can access directly by its
name. We can access by using class name by using object reference. By using null reference. Why are you allowed to access
static variable by using null reference variable? Because already the variable has a memory. Why we cannot access
non-static variable by using null reference variable? Because non-static variable doesn't have memory with
respect to this referenced variable. Okay. Uh next, what the lifetime and scope of the non-static variable?
Lifetime means what? When memory provided? Uh when memory is provided, when class loaded, when object is
created, uh how long this memory is available? Until object is available. So lifetime
and scope of a non-static variable. It get memory when object instance is created and it memory is destroyed when
this object's instance is destroyed. Object instance
object means me. Instance means the memory created for me. New keyword
created a memory is called what? Instance. If you are confusing with object instance both just use only word.
Okay. Object. It get memory when object is created and it memory is destroyed when object is destroyed. We can access
non-static variable in all methods of this class. We can access non-static
variable in all methods of this class and also can be accessed from other
class methods but only by using object reference. You cannot access directly
access directly compiler through error or at runtime we will get exception null pointer exception. All people understand
these points. Any new point is there?
Go. Next seventh point is default value
applicable for the non-static variable. Yes, default values are applicable to non-static variable. It means when we me
when it means when memory is provided to non-static variable, it is first initialized with a default value based
on its data type. Later it is initialized with given values. JVM doesn't provide memory to non-static
variable automatically. JVM provides memory to non-static variable only when we create object of this class as many
objects we created those many copies of memory allocated to non-static variable in separate instance with the different
references the allowed modifiers modifiers I didn't explain it I will explain you later okay
all points about non-static variable also we cover now the next point is parameter
Tell me when I say parameter what the place you visualize
method parenthesis local variable.
What the meaning of inside method that open bracket closed bracket is called what? block body method of body open
bracket closed bracket is called method of body. Uh now tell me a static variable means what the place visualize
outside a method inside the class. uh if I say non-static variable
outside of the method inside a class without static variable parameter
method parenthesis local variable inside method body okay now
question what is a parameter
parameter is a parameter what is a static variable a variable
that is declared outside of the method inside the class
with the keyword static and you are specifying what I created variable where place similarly what is a parameter
a variable that is declared in method parameter is called parameter point
number one point number two is a par what the use of parameter
passing from parame Parameter point of you have to say passing or receiving us parameter
pass value or receive value. Who will pass the caller? Method caller will pass
the value. Okay. Uh now tell me what is a parameter? What the use of parameter? A variable that is declared in the
method parenthesis is called parameter. Second, what the use of parameter? It is
no way related to object. It is related to operation. It is used for receiving a
value as a input for executing this method logic.
Third, if I declare a method with a parameter
sweating red.
Okay. Now change place. If you're feeling sweat or two fans middle you sit now from that
side also air coming from this side also air coming and you are sleeping
summer time now that and moreover colder also there
is a problem huh shall I stop color
so that you'll be out of that cool area and you cannot sleep huh
Not going that not going swing not there
and then what the use of that polar then power waste only for those two people
okay come on come don't sleep topic is important 2 minutes 2 minutes control sleeping after that you can continue
sleeping no problem now tell me now what the question what is the use of parameter parameter is
used for receiving input for exit executing method logic. Okay. Now the
question will parameter get memory automatically. No parameter is meant for receiving the
input at what time? Method creation timer compilation timer execution timer.
Execution when a method is executed just by creating a by calling as long as we
don't call method memory is not allocated to parameter.
Remember just by declaring variable memory will not be provided. Data type
will not provide memory. Data type will only tell how much memory to provide. It
will not provide memory. Int a= to 10. Here int is telling only provide memory
of int type and four bytes memory. But immediately int itself will not provide
memory. Then who will provide memory? either static keyword or new keyword or
method. Static keyword or new keyword or method will provide the memory. Uh if
you just write m1 of inta parenthesis open bracket closed bracket then you
feel there is a memory no when the memory will be there method call. So you have to see the method calling
statement. Suppose if I create static variable in the class is it immediately provided memory? No. When the memory
provided when the class is loaded into JVM you have seen non-static variable intex equal to 20 is there any memory?
No. When memory is allocated when you see new keyword object creation new keyword uh when you see method with a
parameter will you say memory is there? No. When memory will be there method calling uh tell me how many times I can
call method multiple times. Then parameter will be provided memory only one time or
multiple times. Multiple times memory will be provided. Uh below what is the
lifetime and scope of a parameter? When the method memory allocated when method
is called when the parameter memory allocated when method is called how long that memory is available
until the method execution continuing once method execution completed still parameters there are destroyed destroyed
as long as class is running you will be in the classroom. Once I say that's all for today still you will be here uh the
task is completed you are leaving the class okay that means the space allocated for you is destroyed not you
the space okay now uh so the memory allotted for the parameter will be destroyed and given back to the RAM then
RAM will use that memory for next variable to create if I call method with two times tell me how many times
parameter created two times understood uh next where I can access the parameter
can access parameter in another methods. No. Can access parameter within the same
method. First lines, middle lines, last line. Yes. Parameter scope is only
within the same method. In another methods, you cannot access. If you try to access compiler will throw error.
Everyone understand? Next point. What is a local variable?
A variable that is declared in the method body open bracket closed bracket is called local variable. What the use
of local variable? Local variable meant for receiving value or storing value. Local variable is used for storing a
value or an object specific to this method. Local variable
meant for storing a value or an object specific to this method. Okay. This
method operation to execute. Okay. Uh next when the local variable memory allocated it is a twist point is there.
Carefully think and tell me. local variable memory immediately allocated? No. I call method is local variable
memory allocated? No. Just by calling method, local variable memory not
allocated because local variable is the first line in the method, second line, maybe anywhere. Maybe first line, second
line, last line or maybe inside a block or maybe inside a if block, maybe inside
a for block. Am I right? So local variable memory can you guarantee? No.
Static variable memory? Yes. Non-static variable memory by creating object? Yes.
Parameter memory by calling method? Yes. Local variable memory just by calling method. Can you guarantee? No. Local
variable memory allocated only when method is called and the local variable
declaration statement is executed. The local variable declaration statement may
or may not execute. Are you visualizing the code when I'm talking? I am visualizing method inside method body
open bracket closed bracket int Q local variable is what into q static variable
means ab non-static variable means xy parameter means p
local variable means q where this into q is available maybe first line first line
okay memory provided immediately second line third line fourth line until that you have to wait if you write inside if
block if block condition true then q memory created. If block condition is false, Q variable memory allocated or
not allocated? Not allocated. These all points if you know then only you can correctly understand subject and answer
the questions. Understand? Uh what the scope of the local variable from first line of the method to last line from the
declaration line to last line from the variable declaration line to
end of the method. Can I access local variable in another methods? No. Next. If I declare local variable inside if
block, can I access that variable after if block? No. Then what the scope of
local variable in it closed block? What?
If parenthesis open bracket into Q closed bracket. This Q variable available only within if block can
access after if block. No. If I create inside the method then can access end of the method. Yes. inside e block. Yes,
understand right uh write down leave the space leave this off space after going to home
copy I don't want to give time here to write already this is uploaded okay what
is the output from below program what is the output from below program.
I write on this program
Huh?
You are good in mathematics. I know you are not here for mathematics purpose.
Okay. You are here for learning Java mathematics. How that le is coming? Tell me the flow. Draw memory and tell me.
Wonderful you. I want you draw memory and tell
Laxmi is Java program executing top to bottom
or executing as priority. Top to bottom as you declare top to
bottom with priority.
top to bottom with the priority.
You create static variable before static non-static after non-static
before main after main doesn't matter. Uh what you did buddy tell me now first
when you run Java example class is loaded searching for
searching for static variables. Uh two static variables are there now.
Static A B they are static variables are
parameters. They are parameters not static variables. Uh now tell me now uh first
class is loaded then searching for static variables not available. Uh then searching for main method available and
you call add of 5, 6. If you don't write the statement, are these AB variables
memory allocated or not allocated? Is the C variable memory allocated? No.
Then what happen? AB variable sorry 5 six sorry method is called control is
going to where add method with what values? Five and
six where five is stored. What is a
what the current topic? Parameter A. Value five is stored in the
parameter A. What this five and six are called? Parameters are arguments.
Uh the first argument stored in first parameter a memory created
with value five. What is five? Five is a value of argument. Argument. Uh next
parameter B is created with a parameter B is created with the argument
six. So if you create a variable in parenthesis you must not call it as a
variable you must call it as parameter. When you write value in the parenthesis you should not call it as value you
should call it as argument. Uh then next parameters execution completed. Then
local variable C memory created with the result A plus B. What a value five. B value six. Result is 11. 11 stored. Now
C value reading and displaying on the console 11.
Okay. Now uh tell me once main method execution completed are these three
variables still available or destroyed? Destroyed then control come back to main.
Understood. Cross mark that destroy lifetime. Lifetime is very important.
You have to tell when variable created, when variable is destroyed.
Uh what next? Can I call add method one more time? I
call here add of 7, 8. uh you tell me
the flow of execution with memory diagram until don't tell in mass tell in Java.
You are a batch student. One student has developed medical shop project super
patient medical shop. Who is that? What is the name buddy? What is your name?
Raindra. Ravindra online student.
Five replace with seven. Six replace with eight.
I already
know we'll wake them up and replace five with six.
Uh then
uh what happened? Tell me. Yes. Uh when you call method, what happened?
Arguments seven and 8 are passed to method.
Uh huh. Then parameters A and B are created again
with the given arguments seven and eight. Uh next
logic execution started second time with the new value 7 and 8. Result is 15. C
variable C parameter C variable. C variable memory created
15 is stored. Uh SOP and C executed read the C value second time and printed on
the console result 15. Okay. After method execution completed
harshad then what happened? These three variables memory is
destroyed. Then control come back to calling place. Main method completed class complete.
Have you drawn these three variable three parameters again? This is the parameter and local variable
execution flow.
Everyone understand? Any doubts? No doubts really
confident. So finally we have completed variable
and types of variables all four variables. Uh now tell me
I want to show you the summary table
of all these variables. Read it.
Let me better open from the system.
Work topic not completed. Modifiers except modifiers.
Uh this is the table you have to fill. Assignment types of variables. How many?
Four types. First one static.
One second. Static primitive variable or reference variable
both static primitive or reference variable. Uh
non-static primitive or non-static reference variable. Uh parameter
primitive or parameter referenced variable. Uh local primitive or local
reference variable. I want to store mathematical value common to all objects. Then primitive variable. I want
to store one object common to all objects of the class. Then non static
referenced variable. Next I want to store one value separately for every
object. Non-static primitive variable. I want to store one object separately for
every object. Then non-static referenced variable. Suppose all students you take
you have address. Add address is a object. Huh? It has a multiple values. It is an object.
Institute also has address. Now uh tell me for all the people institute is
static variable or non-static variable? Static variable because common value
institute address is static variable or non-static variable.
Institute address nar ID address I want to store in your ID card. Then static or
non-stratica? Static because it is a common to all. Next student name
student address because every student has its own object
address object your address object different other person address object is different. Understand? Next I am
creating a method for receiving one mathematical value. Then parameter should be what type? Primitive. I want
to receive one object as a argument then the parameter should be referenced. I
want to store mathematical value as part of method body primitive. I want to store object reference as a method local
to one method. Then what object uh reference variable I have to create all four variables can be primitive or
reference. Next tell me what the purpose of static variable just completed for
for for storing a value or object common to all objects of the class. What the
purpose of non-static variable? For storing a value or an object separately for every object of the class. Parameter
for receiving a value or object as a argument to the method to execute its logic. Local variable meant for storing
a value or object specific to one object.
Lifetime when created. Static variable created when class is loaded and destroyed when class execution
completed. A non-static variable get memory when new object is created and destroyed once object is destroyed. And
next parameter is get memory only when method is called and destroyed after method execution completed. Local
variable get memory when method is called and it's a declaration statement is executed and it is destroyed
after its enclosing block completed or enclosing method completed. Okay. Next
scope where I can access I can access static variable either within the same class or other classes also but by using
class name. Non-static variable I can access within the same class or also from other classes by using object.
Parameter we can access only within the same method. Local block we can access only within the enclosing block or
enclosing method. Uh memory modification effect me and not you me means
modification effect static variable I modified affected to another methods and another objects yes non-static variable
I modified modification affected to another objects no another methods
I have modified non-static variable in one object is that modification affected to another methods yes no both answers
are correct you have to say depends If second method is using same the first object to read non-static variable
modification affected. If the second method is using different object modification is not affected. Uh
parameter local variable modification not affected. Alias names. What are the alias names?
class variable, instance variable, auto variable, auto variable or uh field
property, field property, stack variable, stack variable default value apply to static variable, apply to
non-static variable, not apply to parameter and local variable modifiers, you didn't understand it. Modifiers
topic not completed. So this is the assignment you have to complete. You have to write all these column in
yourself in your notes and you have to fill yourself. H no sir my mind is gaji mind already given answers also
okay now if you want to try try yourself no sir it's very difficult for me and
copy paste okay with this we completed variables chapter four types of
variables final conclusion right on how many types of variable Java support
how many types of variable Java
Based on data type based on data type
we have
two types of variables.
Hello, write as a paragraph. You have to tell the statement as it is to the
interviewer. Okay, this is a final question. Confusion question. Based on data type, we have two types of
variables. Primitive variables and referenced variables.
Primitive variables and reference variables for storing
for storing a value and object. For storing a value and an object reference
for storing a value and an object reference.
Second bullet point based on the place we declare.
Based on the place we declare
both primitive and referenced variables.
Both primitive and referenced variables
are of two types.
class level variables.
Number two, method level variables.
Next, class level and metal class level variables are divided into two types.
Third bullet point, class level variables are divided into two types,
static and non-static.
Uh, next method level variables are divided into two types.
Now what parameter and local variables
in the learning order okay just I told learning order and tell me
what is the order you have to tell to enter your reverse order you have to tell
reverse orital. Write and down. Totally Java supports.
Totally Java supports Java supports four types of variables.
Write as a paragraph. Okay. Four types of variables. static comma
non-static parameter and local variable
static comma non-static parameter and local variables.
Please stop write as paragraph continuation static non-static are
static or non-static variables are
CLV class level variables you can write shortcuts if you want
continuation parameter and local variables are
What? Mother level variables
all four types of variables
can be
can be primitive or
reference type variables.
Okay, this is the conclusion you have to tell what the proof for our types of variables notes.
Oracle corporation tutorial look at here. So complete notes I have uploaded.
Once again I'm reminding you first variable types of variables. This is the tutorial you have to follow to see types
of variables. variables and then Java programming language defines the
following kinds of variable instance variables, class variables, local variables, parameters. Okay. Uh right
next uh now here variable related all points
I have uploaded. Then next I have explained types of variables.
Okay, types of variables complete all four types of variables. Uh in the notes I gave extra points. Here those points
are not given. Only main points I gave. Okay. Then next write next point. Local
block. Local block.
Now tell me what is a block? Block and what? Open bracket. Closed
bracket. Local means inside a method. Inside a method if you
place open bracket closed bracket is called what? Local block. What is the definition of local block?
Is it name or nameless? No. If no for nothing. A nameless block
placed inside a method body or constructor body or static non-static
block body. Nothing but a a nameless block open bracket closed bracket placed
inside the method or constructor is called what? Local block. What the use of local block? When you call a method,
all statements available in the method are executed. Now, if I want to control the execution, we will use if block or
switch block or for block, loop block. But if we write just open bracket closed
bracket, is there any condition checking to enter in? No. That means when you call method, definitely control will go
into the local block. All statements available in the local block are executed. No. Then what is the purpose of the local block?
Block define the scope. Block define scope. Uh who required
scope? A sentence a statement required scope. Variable declaration required scope.
If I declare variable inside a method that variable memory is available and accessible until end of the method. I
have created one variable. three four lines I have used that variable now my method is having still 20 lines 30 lines
1,000 lines is there then tell me that four bytes are 8 bytes of memory allocated for this variable waste for me
to till end of the method now if I destroy that memory that can be used for new variable creation uh so I want to
tell to compiler compiler after these three lines destroy that variable let me reuse that variable memory again so how
can we decrease the scope of the variable within the method by using local block. If you want to decrease the
scope of the variable, then we have to use local block. That means the variable created inside the method body open
bracket closed bracket available till end of the method. If you declare variable inside the local block, it is
available till end of the method of only up to the local block up to the local block. Once control come out of the
local block, the variable is destroyed. Okay. So what is a local block? in just open bracket closed bracket placed a
nameless block just open bracket closed bracket created inside a method is
called local block and tell me class a open bracket closed bracket what is this block class block static wide m1
parenthesis open bracket closed bracket what is this method block just open bracket closed bracket what is this
totally how many blocks are here three class block method block and local block
clear uh what the use of local block. A local block is used for decreasing the
scope of a local variable. It means by using the local block we can destroy a
local variable memory immediately after its usage is completed. Uh now class block main method inside main method I
created P. This P variable is available until end of the method. Anywhere we can
access if I write into Q equal to 20 where I have placed inside local block.
Is this Q variable available end of the method up to the local block only? After local block SOP then Q if you
write is it compile or not compiled not compiled compiler will throw error. For example in above program the local
variable P will be available until the last line of the method. The other local variable Q will be destroyed in the
middle of the method execution. It is not available until the last line of the method because we have declared inside
we have declared this local variable Q inside the local block. Up to now understand what is local block why local
block now what are the different statements I can place in the local block tell me local block is a
sleeping controlling sleeping very good okay if you reply you will not sleep if
you don't reply you will sleep today onwards classes are full sleeping classes
want the flow okay if you're not in the flow you will be sleeping. Okay. Uh so
please be with me. Tell me in the water fish is sleeping.
Why? Because it is playing with the water either water direction it is going or opposite to water direction it is
going and it is playing in the water. Same way if you play with the java speaking along with me you will not
sleep. Otherwise g okay fully deep sleep slowly slowly I
don't disturb your sleeping state. one hour or two days I'll disturb if you are in still in sleeping state that I'll
feel what okay this person wanted to sleep in the classroom in hospital room disturbance is there okay I will
decrease the notes writing slowly slowly okay most explanation will be there more
test cases solving will be there less notes will be there you will forgot everything I will share the notes after
class in the Google classroom go into room and copy or practice yourself you have to involve in the discussion speak
more write less. When you speak more your imaginary skills will be improved
with imaginary we can learn so many points. Uh go to your househ
with imaginary can go as much distance as you want. Sir my house is you know 300 km after sir imaginary go away are
you in your house now? Yeah. Are you talking to your mother? Yes. Talking to your father? Yes. Beating your children?
What do you call? Beating your siblings? Yes or no?
Fighting with your siblings. Yeah. Okay. Children single. Okay. Coming future. Huh. So finally what the point with the
imaginary you can go as much distance as you want. So that's why more most of the
time in the class you have to start visualize what I am saying. Uh tell me when I say class what you visualize.
When I say assume there is a class what you visualize class
example open bracket closed bracket assume there are static variables in that class
A why in that may be int maybe double maybe care
maybe example maybe float maybe anything least bother only names of the variables you ought to see there are two variables
AB uh now assume there are non-static variables XY assume there are parameters
PQ wonderful there are parameters PQ there are some local variables
MN MN are local variables understand uh reference variables if I say assume
there are reference variables are there as static E1 E2 example E1 example E2
assume there are non-static reference variables E3 E4 assume there are parameters reference variables
E5, E6, two, two variables you have to consider. Assume there are local variables. Okay. E7, E8. Okay. Now
people are okay. No problem. Sometimes sleeping
classes will be there. Uh now next now tell me now local block means okay method open bracket closed bracket. Now
tell me what are the statements we can write inside a local block. Tell me whenever I say local block what you have
to visualize a method and open bracket closed bracket. Local block is part of
what method inside method what are the statements allowed inside local block
same statements allowed now. Uh tell me inside a local block can I write SOP and statement? Yes. Can I write if
condition? Yes. loop. Yes. One method. Yes. I can call one method. Yes. Can I
create one variable? Yes. Whatever you can do inside a method. Everything I can do inside a local block. Uh what are the
different statements allowed inside a local block? We can place any statement that is allowed inside a local block
because local block is part of the method. Uh it means we can place variable declaration, variable
initialization, assignment, accessing. Accessing means what? Reading. Next method call condition loops break
continue return try catch finally even we can place an object creation statement also whatever allowed inside a
method everything we can write inside a local block. So we completed what is a local block
why local block are the statements allowed inside a local block. Now let us try to do some experiments. Ready? Uh I
created local block open bracket closed bracket. Inside I created variable called int Q. I'm trying to read Q
variable within the same local block. Allowed after local block not allowed.
If you try to access after local block compiler throw error. Rule number one. The local variable created inside one
block. Sorry, the variable created inside local block can be accessible within the local block but cannot be
accessible after local block. Uh rule rule on local variable that is placed inside a local block. If you place a
local variable inside a local block, we cannot access it after this local block. If you try to access this local variable
either for reading or modifying its value, compiler throw error cannot find symbol because this local variable scope
is end by local block and it is destroyed. For example, class example M1 method into P equal to 30. Are online
students? Can you see into P equal to 10? Tell me P variable scope is method
scope local block scope. Method scope. Can I access this P variable from the
next line? Anywhere in the method inside local block? Yes. Local block is part of
the method. Uh tell me now in Q equal to 20. It is a local. It is a scope is only within the local block. Can I access
after local block? No. within the local block. Yes. S O and P is it valid? It is
accessing for P variable from the method scope. Uh S and Q is it possible? Yes.
Accessing within the local block scope. Uh after local block completed SOP and P
allowed. SOP and Q not allowed. In this program, we can access local variable P
anywhere in the method. Uh we try to access local variable Q after local block. Then we got compile time error.
Any doubts up to now? Uh now next question I'm asking after local block
completed can I recreate this Q variable again? Yes. Yes. Because Q variable is already
destroyed. H tell me is there any compile time
error here? First statement inp equal to 10. Any
error? No. That is the local block variable method variable. I created local block. What the scope of
this Q variable only within the local block after local block I'm writing Q equal to 20 allow
now allow
one second you think before answering what is Q= 20 Q= 20 means assignment assignment means
access the variable and store On a variable we can perform two operation create and access. Access for
initialize, access for assign, access for read. Here how can I say variable
creation? Accessing data type is not there. Accessing data type is there. Creation Q= 20. I am accessing Q
variable to store 20. To access Q variable that is scope is what? Local block already destroyed. So compiler
throw error here. Intqal 20 allowed or not allowed. I am recreating
it is allowed in P= 30 not allowed because P variable scope is not
completed. I cannot create second variable with the same existing variable name P equal to 30 allowed where this 30
is stored another P memory created a previous memory previous memory 10
replace with 30. So what the rule number two if you I mean I can recreate local v
local block variable after local block. No problem. uh look at here in the first the local variable created inside a
local block can be recreated inside the same method after this local block will not get any compile time because local
variable scope is already end uh now here what I'm doing q equal to 40 means I am accessing s q means what I'm doing
accessing here we are not recreating we are assigning assigning means variable
must be available second da uh now p variable okay now control is going here
into q allow S and Q allowed after local block int Q= 40 allowed S Q is allowed
which Q is this local block Q local method variable Q method variable Q here
we are recreating so no error understand the two points local variable created
inside a local block cannot be accessible after local block next point the local variable created inside a
local block can be recreated after local block two points comfortable third important point. Tell me now, can I
recreate me level variable P inside a local block?
Think one second. At least one second. Think and give answer. Don't give answer. Yes. Don't give answer. No.
The local variable created inside the method. Can I recreate in the local block?
No why no scope is not end its memory is not
destroyed. If you create int P again in the local block after after that
creation if you write SOP P which P it has to access in the same scope two Ps
are created. So it is error. Uh rule number three. What the rule number three? The local variable created inside
the local block. I cannot recreate again in the local block. Intp equal to 10. P
memory already available in the local block in P equal to 20. If you write compiler throw error uh into Q= 30
allowed after local block int P 40 not allowed into Q= 50 allowed. Understand
this point. Uh next very important question. I cannot access the I I cannot
recreate local variable in the local block. Can I access local variable in the local block? Yes, because still it
has a scope. Everyone tell me no. In P= 20 I have written inside local block.
I'm not writing in P equal to 50. I have written P equal to 50. Hello. Then is
that 50 stored within the local block or in the P memory 20 replace with 50.
P memory 20 replace with 50. After local block if I write SOP we will get 20 now
50. Huh? Come on. Some people not answering. 20.
20. Huh? The 50 is local to that local block. No.
P= 50 you have written in the local block. Then the 50 is local to that local block. No.
Wrong answer. Whatever I said that you follow blindly.
P= 50. It is not local assignment that
is accessing which P local P method P
method P 50 will go into method level P 20 replace with 50. Yesterday we
discussed static variable I assign inside the method. Is that assignment available only for that method available
for other methods also? because that value 50 stored in the local to method of static variable memory. Uh so here
also what is the meaning of there? Uh P equal to 10. P memory created with the
value 10. In the local block I have written P equal to 20. What the meaning of it? Store 20 in the P memory which is
available before local block 10 replace with 20. As long as this P memory
available in the next lens what is the value? We will get 20. This point is very confusion point if you don't accept
and remember what was the example I gave yesterday. You went to the kitchen from your room. You went to kitchen. You eat
the food there. Then from the kitchen coming out when you're coming out all the food coming
out of your stomach. No. Along with your stomach food also coming. No. Uh you
came to your room. In your room food is available. Huh? Tell me now. In P is your room. From the room you come to the
local block kitchen. In the kitchen you ate the food 20. Then going out of the local block. Is the 20 still available
or not available? Available. Why? Because this P 20 not belongs to the
local block. 20 belongs to me level. Wherever me level variable is available that value is also available. Now tell
me P equal to 40. After local block I have written P equal to 40. What the meaning of it? 40 is storing again one
more memory or previous memory previous memory 20 replace with F. So what is the
point? We cannot create a middle level local variable again inside local block
because method level local variable scope is not end. Next point
we can access method level local variable inside local block either for reading or for modifying its value. If
you access if you assign a new value to a method level variable that value is stored inside the same memory that is
created at method level before local block as shown in the below program P.
Okay. Uh now what is the output of this program? Already answers there.
Uh tell me int P= 10 SP P value coming from where the memory available before
local block P equal to 20. 20 stored inside where P memory 10 replace with 20
SO and P 20 hello you are accessing P from the previous line from the memory
if you don't have each weight reading value from the memory lifelong you will give wrong answers only local block
completed control come out SO P means before block in the block memory in the
memory what value available 20 here also what output you will get 20 if you modify middle level local variable
inside a local block and If you read this method level local value after local block, we will get this local
block latest modified value because local block will store value in the method level memory only. These are the
four important cases you have to understand. They go what is a local block? A block that is created inside a
method is called local block. Why local block? For decreasing the scope of the local variable. How how can we create
local block? Just open bracket, close the bracket. What statements allowed inside local block? All statements which
are allowed inside method allowed. Special cases on local block with respect to local variable. Case number
one. Local variable creation in local block and accessing after local block. Not possible. Local variable creation in
the local block and recreating after local block. Allowed. Recreating method level local variable inside local block.
Not allowed. Modifying and reading method level local variable inside local block. Allowed. Modifying local method
level local variable inside local block. And reading after local block allowed. Local block modified value only
available. Am I going fast? Yes sir. Are you coming slow? That is
your problem not my problem. If I am going fast you are feeling I'm going fast. You are slow. Start giving key to
you. Yourself start giving key. I should also talk fast. Are you already change your
second gear? I am still in the first gear only. Engine sound is coming. Not able to hear
[Music] your engine giving sound. You are not observing it. That is your problem. Your
engine only spoiled. Change the speed to two gear. Tomorrow third gear.
Uh now tell me whatever the cases we have discussed with the local block. Same cases are applied for what? If
block because it is also block, else block.
Okay. If block, else block switch block. While do while for try catch finally
block. Okay. Wherever block is found there all these five cases are applied. Okay. Now
the next point very important. Local block with a label. Do you remember label? What is a label?
Name to a block. A name to a nameless block is called label. A name to a
nameless block. Tell me what is a local block? Nameless block. Can I provide a name to the block? Yes. What the syntax
to provide the label to the block? Label name L1 colon open bracket closed
bracket. What the use of the label? Label is used for accessing the block
from the inner blocks with break continue. remember uh now look at here
I'm writing one small program for you
local block one LB1 means not label one local block one next local block two
inside I have written loop one per loop is there uh how many iterations I'm
asking to execute 10 iterations s loop one one equal equal to 5 no loop
iterated Loop two, loop three, loop four, loop
five, loop, loop five, five equal equal to 5. True. Break. By default, a break
will break your head.
Break will break whom? Uh, send the control to where?
Next iteration? Next loop in
Next loop break will break and send the control to
after loop. Execute the rest of the statements available in the method.
Here break is executed. Control come out of the ifa control come out of the loop
loop and executes after loop after label
after local block two after local block one. Correct?
Now my requirement is I want I don't want to just break for
loop. I want to break this label to completely means local block two
completely and I want to send the control to after local block two after local block one I want execute. What
should I do? What you want to break local block two
then I have to tell to break. array breaker just don't break the loop you break what local block two send the
control after local block two for that what I should write break with label
break lb2 when I write break lb2 after for loop statements executed and not
executed not executed break searching for local block to label is it local
block two no is it local block two yes then So after local block two the
statements placed inside local block two after for loop are not executed
after loop is not executed directly go to after local block I don't want to
break local block two complete from the root I want to break local block one I want to break send the control after
local block one then what I should write break lb2 if I write break lb sorry
break lb one then searching loop Loop one no local block two no local block one then
control will go after means after for loop not executed after local block two not executed after local block one
statements available in the method will be executed. So this is the complete syllabus of
local block. Okay after going to home copy all the slides in your notes and type that programs in the system to
verify the output. Clear my point right. Uh now with this we completed the most
interesting topic what local block topic. Next in Java 10 feature I got one
new concept. Look at here in Java 10 feature we got one new concept. Are you
learning JavaScript? If you want to create variable in JavaScript are using data type. No. We
will use one keyword called what? Where? Where? I1 equal to 10. Okay. In Java
also from Java 10 version onwards we can stop using the data type in place of
data type I can write where where i1 equal to 10 is valid okay next where
where d1 = 10.5 is valid where where c1
= single quote a valid where b1 = to true is valid where
string S1 S1 equal to double quotes hurry is valid
where E1 equal to new example also valid
where where I A equal to new int of five is also
valid. I will open where where
is the shortcut way of variable uh variable I1 variable D1. Five
[Music]
where i1 = 10 where d1 means what I'm telling to compiler compiler create a
variable able with the name I1 and store 10 create a variable D1 store value 10.5
create a variable C1 store value single code compile look at your face and ask
if you want to create variable you must tell me the data type where is the data type
where is not a data type no it is a concept using which I am telling to the
compiler JVM create a variable with the name I1 and store it 10 which type of
variable Any type
10 what in what is 10.5?
What is single code? I1 variable is of what type? Int D1 variable is what type?
C1 variable. What type? B1. S1. E1.
Huh? Object. Object is a object memory. It is not
type. Object is not a type. Object is a memory of what type. Example uh here
object is what type here? S1. S1 is a what type? String. Why string?
Okay. Because this object is a type is a string. Uh new example is a object. What
type? Example new is a variable of what type
is a name what type in array in array variable type is what in array
understand I happily write here int i1 d1 that is
more comfortable for me than where then don't use the data then what this
concept what the purpose of this concept what the benefit I'm getting out of it. Okay. Uh now most of the time in the
project if you remember I told we don't write values like 10 10.5 single quote a
we will call a method. Method will return the value. I'll call a method. Method will return the value.
Then if you want to assign this method to a variable some x. What the type of x?
I should find the type of mmon method. Now what the return type of the method? I should open M1 method declaration oh
in then write in oh double then write double that means I should more focus on
the unnecessary data type what is returning from this method now so some micro system told are hurry don't worry
from Java 10 onwards why okay uh don't worry uh now I am going to
write just what where right just you write whereby automatic compiler will
decide what the data type now you are free from
thinking about data type for the variable. Are you happy now? Uh so from which version?
Uh in your if your company is using Java 8 version can I use where concept? If
your company upgraded from 8 to 11 version, can I use this? Yes. uh from Java 11 version onwards show your talent
don't use the data type right where X equal to M working employee in the company look at your face hey intra
where what is that where are you writing JavaScript language or Java language look at him and smile
you don't know Java already upgraded right Java already upgraded that I can
use where then he will start asking you oh really wow what is Where?
What is where? Is it a keyword? Is it a keyword?
Is it a keyword? Uh, is it a keyword? Int is a keyword.
Where is a keyword?
Is it a keyword? Is it a keyword? If it is a keyword
coding syntax, coding syntax a blue color.
It is not coming in blue color. Then what is where? Where is not a keyword.
It is just a identifier. It is just a special identifier.
Identifier means what? Name.
Last point. Last two minutes. Please listen. Uh where is a just a identifier?
It is not a keyword. Oh, it is just a identifier. Can I write like this into where equal to 20?
It is just a identifier. Mama. Uh if it is just a identifier, can I use as my variable name? Yes. Uh can I use it as
my method name? I want to close this main method. Okay. Okay, I'm creating my
own method where sorry uh void void where of is it allowed? Yeah. Then I'm
calling where of parenthesis semicolon is it allowed? Yes. What is a where? Where is just a
special identifier? Where is a special identifier? Why the special identifier?
If I write in the data type place, it has a meaning. If I write in the
variable name place and method name place, does it have any meaning? No meaning. Now think and tell me can I use
where as a class name? Can I use where as a class name? Uh if I
use where as a class name create object of that class where how can I write where uh E1 equal to new where
this is what is the place data type place. Now it should be considered as a
special identifier where or should consider as a class name where
confusion to compiler. If compiler consider as a class name where other developer will feel no I want it as a
just normal identifier normal data type okay uh so confusion will compiler
that's why here you will get compile number you cannot use where as a class
name are catching my point you cannot use where as a class name I can use where as a variable name I can use where
as a method name but I cannot use as a class name so finally What is a where?
What is the use of the where? Where is a where? It is used for performing where
operations. Where level huh? Huh? Now tell me in
Java 10 version we have a new feature called local variable type inference.
Repeat again. Local variable type inference. Inference means take bring.
Okay. bring bring the local variable type from some other place. Using this
feature, we can create a local variable. Which variable not a parameter,
not a non-static variable? Not static variable. This concept is applied only
to local variable means I can create a variable by using where only local
variable. If I am trying to create
compiler not compiler not compiled where a semicolon not compiled static where
static va not compiled where x not compiled are you following we cannot
create a parameter static variable non-static variable by using where
because where concept is available able only for class level variable sorry method level variable. Why I will tell
you using this feature if we want to create a local variable without using a data type we must use a special
identifier called what where as shown below where a equal to five where is not
a keyword or not a reserve word. It is just an identifier. It is an identification to the compiler that the
data type for this variable must be infer bring from the right side value
file. So if you want to create a variable by using where compulsory what must be there.
If you want to create a variable by using where compulsory what must be there? Assignment must be there.
Compulsory assignment must be there because from the assigned value the type will be inferred and assigned to the
web. Now tell me is parameter has a assignment in the creation. No. Then how
can what is the type of web? Static variable non-static variable are meant for assign the value at the time of
creation. at the time of runtime runtime runtime dynamic values I should assign
even though you have written x= to 10 y a= to 20 they are not available at
development time I mean development you are writing but compilation time they are moving to some other place so
parameter doesn't have assignment non-static variable static variable doesn't have assignment then the type of
this value cannot be decided so uh this feature is available only for
what local variable For example, in the statement where x equal to five, the variable exit type is inferred as in
from the value five. Because where is not a keyword or not a reser word, we can use where as a variable name where
where equal to five allowed or not allowed. First is data type. Second v is variable name. Here first v is a
identifier refers to the data type. Second v is the variable name stores the value five. Okay. Then now the rules on
where uh rules we can use where only to a local
variables. If you where if you use where to static variable, instance variable and parameter compiler will throw error.
Also we cannot use where for class creation and method return type. Method return type also you cannot use. Rule
number one all you understand. Rule number two. Listen carefully. I'm writing some statement here. Please
look at here. I'm writing some statement. Is it allowed or not?
Where? Okay, this is a class level not allowed. I'm going back to the method.
Uh listen, listen. Very important point. Let me see how many people can think on answer where uh say some x = 5. Any
error or no error? Uh what the type of x in 5.6 Six
5BL single code five double quotes five.
New example. Uh that means when you want to create a
variable with where compulsory initialization must be there and the
assigned value also must have type open bracket 5 6a 7. What is this array?
What the type of array?
It is a array but what the type of array? No type. You didn't mention the type. If
you write int array x= to this array type is inferred from left side variable
declaration. Remember the type of this array is what?
Both will started fighting. This open bracket is saying you give me your type to me. Where is telling that no you give
your type to me. both side fighting will start compiler will throw error you cannot use where because value doesn't
have specific type so tell me what the rule number two the assigned value must
have specific type and tell me I'm writing here null null is of which type any type any
reference type there is no specific type then compiler throw error if you create variable using where it must be
initialized in the same declaration line else compiler will throw error suppose If I write here where equal to what the
type of X no type. So compiler throw error. Second the initialized value must
have specific type. If the value itself doesn't have type compiler will throw error. So these are the three rules. If
you remember you can answer any question in the written test exam on where all points I combined here. Uh tell me class
A where X allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Class level variable. Class B where M1 where is what? return type
allowed or not allowed. Not allowed. Class C Y M1 where X parameter allowed not allowed. Not allowed. Uh where X
semicolon without initialization allowed not allowed. Where X equal to null assignment is there but null doesn't
have any type. So that's why it is allowed or not allowed. Not allowed. X equal to new example. Excel don't have
type in the next line is also not allowed. Next where X equal to 10. If I don't mention the class or method scope
that means it is a local variable remember where x equal to 10 allowed what the x type in the next line I'm
writing x= 20 allowed allow 20 is what type in x= 20.5 20.5 is what type double
double can assign to x variable no incompatible type error will come uh where equal new example new example type
is example can be assigned to even yes allowed where type is example equal next
new example allowed E1 equal new tester not allowed. E1 equal new sample. Hey I
given tick mark. Why I give tick mark. This is what object sample. If I am
trying to store one class object in another class variable. Suppose if I write here X equal to single quote A. Is
it allowed? Allowed. Single quote is a car type. Carry is the lesser than int. Here I even equal new sample. Tick mark
means sample is the lesser than E1 type. What the E1 type? Example. So sample is
the subclass of example that's why it is allowed. This point we'll discuss in the inheritance chapter. Next E1 equal to
null allowed. E1 equal to null allowed. E1 is what type? Example in example variable I can
assign null allowed. Okay. Next where equal to 10 it is also allowed. Where
equal to 20 allowed. W where method name is also allowed. all point next class
example and detailed program one by one clearly rule one rule two rule three everything I have written so it is your
turn to practice okay and finally summary and revision videos if you don't
understand any of these four days of variable discussion uh four five days of
all videos I have given here summary this is a syllabus 18 points then types
of variables then static variable non-standard variable parameter
local variable then uh default values of each variable then a sample program on
default and then difference between primitive and reference variable and then summary of all variables okay
everything including videos I gave anything you don't understand follow these videos and come tomorrow clear my
point tomorrow we are starting next chapter methods very very important
don't miss

