ript


Ah right good morning everyone. So last class we are trying to
understand types of methods. So how many types of methods we have seen?
Java supports how many types of methods? Two types. What are the two types?
Abstract method and concrete method. Concrete methods are of what type? Two
types. What are the two types? Static and non-static. Static non-static methods are of how many types?
Private, non-private, void, nonvoid,
parameterized and non-parameterized. Okay. Uh repeat once again. How many types of method Java support? Two types.
Uh abstract and concrete. Uh next concrete
methods are divided into what are the two types? Static and non-stic. Uh tell me static,
non-static again divided into three types. What are the three types? Private, non-private,
wide, non-wide, parameterized and non-parameter. How many types of variables?
Four types. What the four types? Static, non-static,
parameter, and local variable. How many types of methods? Two types. Private and
Okay. Tell four types of methods. What are the four types of methods? Private non-private.
Okay. First you have to say uh abstract concrete static non-static private
non-private void nonvoid parameterized nonparameter.
Okay. Huh? So based on the prototype based on the prototype methods are
divided into four types. What the four types static abstract and concrete
static non-static private non-private void nonvoid
parameterized and nonparameters. This is the division you have to remember. Okay. Right. Now abstract concrete we cannot
understand here. We will understand in the abstraction chapter. Yesterday we have completed static non-static.
Now tell me what is a static method? A method that is created with the
keyword static is called static method. What is a non-static method?
Uh when should I create method as a static method? If you want to develop logic and execute
logic common to all objects then we should use static method. Or if you want to call the method without using object,
we have to create method as a stud. Uh when should I create method as a non-static method?
If you wanted to develop logic common to all objects,
execute logic specific to one object or if you want to call the method by using
object, then we should create the method as a non-static method. Okay. Then next
um what is a private method? A method that is declared with a keyword
private is called private method. What is a non-private method? A method that
not contain keyword private either default or protected or public is called
what? Non-private method. When should I create method as a private method?
If you want to access if you want to develop uh if you want to access the method only within the same class not
allow other classes to access we should declare the method as a private method. When should we create method as a
non-private method? If you want allow other programmers to access our method in general when you are developing the
main operation then we create it as a non-private. If you are developing an operation to be reused, if you are
developing suboperation to be reused by multiple other operations, then we have to create it as a private non-private
meth uh sorry private method. Main operation non-private suboperation
private what is the example we have seen bank account deposit withdraw
non-private method alert method is private method. Alert method should be executed only as part of deposit and
withdrawal. So these are the points we have learned in last class. Can I expect all the people practiced?
Uh once again tell me how many types of method Java support. Four types.
How many types of variables? Four. How many types of methods? Four. What are
the four types of variables? Static, non-static, parameter, local. How many types of
methods? Four. What the four types? Abstract concrete
static non-static private non-private void nonvoid parameterized
non-carameterized okay uh last class we completed two types of methods static non-static
private non-private now today we have to complete remaining two topics what is that void nonvoid
parameterized nonparameterized tomorrow is holiday for
only our class but tomorrow is a working day tomorrow is not a holiday tomorrow is a working day but for me I'm taking
leave if you are attending other classes in arit like var or html you have class
tomorrow okay now afternoon no only morning attending any other classes other than
ka html attending morning 7:00 uh you have class already informed
already your faculty might be inbound right so tomorrow is a working day no holiday then tomorrow working day when I
can compensate next Sunday uh next Sunday okay next Sunday we will
have class no holiday okay next Sunday 14th 14th you will have class no holiday
you have to attend the class okay now if 14th actually 14th there is a exam okay
we are conducting screening text exam for your seniors. If 14th is they
required to use this room for conducting exam then I will take next Sunday class.
Understand? So I have to compensate four to five classes. Remember I taken around
three holidays three or four leaves I guess. How many? Two leaves. Okay. Two
leaves I have taken and now tomorrow leave totally three. So three leaves I have taken. Three leaves means 6 hours I
have to compensate. So for that Sunday classes is compulsory. So initially I
don't take Sundays but end of the batch I will take Sundays. Uh how many hours
classes will be on Sunday? Uh 2 hours class means it's a waste of
the time come to Sunday because you are sacrificing your personal personal works and coming to class. Now that means you
have to spend at least one more hour extra. Okay. So 9 to 12 or 12:30 we have to
spend the time 3 and the fourth my mind will be blasted sir don't worry in the middle I'll give you one chai break no
okay so I'll give one chai break then you can go down and drink chai and come with not my money your money only okay
so so next coming Sundays you can expect classes 14th if this room is required
For conducting exam will not have class otherwise 14th will have class. uh 14th
if missing 21 28 and fifth fifth
okay so now these are coming Sundays you will have classes please don't have any
plans of taking holidays leaves is it clear and next next coming weeks we'll
have what festivals festivals holidays will be there those holidays also we have to compensate
right why you are here for holidays purpose subject purpose uh subject then
bend your body tell to your body you can work all is well you can work okay uh
you are youngster right not a old man like 90 years so being a family man
being a old man I am ready to come to the classes being aster if you are not coming and you are such a waste fellow
in the world correct my point correct being a family man by I'm sacrifying my
family people I'm coming to your class ready to come to your class and now I'm 43 now 43 years old man is ready to come
to Sunday also to work for you but you 22 years worst fellow not ready to come and you are happily getting the food for
eating no responsibility no future plans
irresponsible you should ask me take Sunday also
when I say are you ready for Sunday
Monday is a rest day
after getting job every Sunday two holidays will be there you know sorry every week two holidays will be there
Saturday Sunday if any festival is there one more holiday and if you take one
sick leave long weekend will be there Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 4 days
you'll have enjoy like anything companies but work hard. Now let's continue our class. Today Saturday
effect is there on the class.
uh what we are discussing last class wide and non-wide method right
tell me what is a wide method uh tell me is it compiled
is it compiled uh is it a wide or non-wide uh a method whose return type is wide is
called wide method wide method can be empty uh a wide method can contain
return semicolon. A void method cannot contain return value semicolon because returning
value five cannot be written via void. Then next uh tell me can we
create a nonvoid method as a empty method? No. If you try to create nonvoid
as empty method, compiler will throw error. And tell me what is the return type? In compulsor I have to return
value. What return value? Can I write return semicolon? You have to place them in the comment. Okay. Only one written
statement I can write. Multiple written statements I cannot write. Uh written semicolon. Uh now tell me
return semicolon allowed. Not allowed. If you don't write If you don't write return statement, we will get compile
time error. Missing return statement. Missing return statement. If you place
return value semicolon in the wide method, we'll get compile time error. Unexpected return value. It is a wide
method. We are not expecting the value why you are returning unexpected return value. So it is a compile time error. Uh
next if you don't return value from the method we will get compile time error. I must return value. What value I should
return in but I am placing what return semicolon. If I place return semicolon I
am place return statement but value is not there. So we'll get compile time error missing return value. Okay then
now I'm placing return five. Is it allowed? This value for returning from here are
going via int. It is going out of this method via int.
That means it's a kind of assignment only. Now can I assign five to int? Yes.
Five is in can be assigned to int. Any error? No. Compile successfully. And now
I am commenting this and I'm writing return single code. Allow single code is
a care. Can I assign to int? Yes. Uh now when I assign single quote int now it
will go out as single quote or converted to asky number what value coming out 97
97 you will get compile and execute uh sorry okay execution main method is not
there only I want to compile uh next tell me now 5 I'm written all can I
assign 5 to in no incompatible types possible conversion is the compile time
error possible velocity conversion from long to in not allowed to assign uh next
10.5 allowed not allowed compiler will throw error double to int possible uh
double quote say is what string can I assign string to int no we'll get compile time error possible loss of
conversion from string to int uh so if you have a nonvoid method I must return
value of type same as the return type if you don't return value or if you place
only return semicolon or if you place return value incompatible or higher
range value incompatible true incompatible or higher range value compiler will throw error. So the value
allowed to return from the method is either same type of value or lesser type value. Is it clear everyone?
Now look at here any compile time error now
it is a wide method can be empty it is a nonvideo method returning file allowed y
to return end yes no compile time error successfully be created but are these
methods automatically executed no we have to call tell me what are the
different ways I can call a method what are the different ways we can call
a method. Oh, what are the different ways we can call? What the syntax of method calling method name? M1 of
parentheses by passing what? Arguments. Uh what the syntax? Method name. Method
name of argument. For example, what you write? M1. Any argument or no argument?
No argument. Uh now tell me why no argument? Because there is no parameter.
Now my question is what are the different ways I can call a method. I'm
not asking on private. I'm not asking on static. I am asking on void. Based on
the void and nonvoid we can call a method in how many ways? Four ways.
Based on the void and nonvoid we can call method on four ways. What the four ways? Number one as single statement.
Now guess what the meaning of single statement M1 parenthesis semicolon. Okay as a single statement. Next second
as a variable assignment.
As a variable assignment. What is the meaning of variable assignment? Int sum a equal to m1. Do you remember this? The
syntax we already learned in variable chapter first program. We learn right. Next also we can use as a
as a as an operate uh as an operent
as an operent in an expression. How uh look at there int b =
a into m1. Okay int b = a into m1. What the meaning
of it? M1 method multiplied with A or M1 return value multiplied with A value
A value is taken into M1 return value substituted both are multiplied and
result is stored in the B variable. Understand? Uh next I can also use as a
use as a method method argument.
Okay, this a and English grammar I'm not following. Okay, now as variable
assignment as operand in an expression as method argument.
Okay, let me write as a single statement as a variable assignment because pronunciation not comfortable
as a method argument. Now tell me what the meaning of method
argument you know right system.out.printer print
system outer print leng whatever you write in the method parenthesis that is called what argument here I'm writing m1
parenthesis what the meaning of it print m1 print m1 return value print m1 method
return value suppose if I write 10 directly print if I write a a print a
value Print a value print. If I write a + b
or a + b a + b a value b value add result
expression result value print. If I write a equal to b
error no error. Copy b value into a
variable and print that a value. I already explained this one also. Copy
b value into a variable and return that a variable to print len. So same way if
I write here m1 parentheses what the meaning of it execute m1 method
execute m1 method it's a return value pass as a argument to print ln then
print ln will print that value on the console. Okay, instead of print and method, can I also take instead of print
and method, can I also take some method m_sub_2 my own method m_sub_2 and can
call m1 method? Yes. What the meaning of it? M1 return value is passing as
argument to m_sub_2 method or system.out print and m1 m1 return value is passing
as argument to print ln print method logic executed and print the given value. And the fifth approach, fifth,
fifth option, fifth option as a method result or return value.
As a method, return value. Uh I have a method return type is int. Method is M3
open bracket closed bracket. And here inside M3 method I am returning what
value? Int. Uh tell me can I write like this?
written uh written say five I can write yes I
can write a yes then here a return a value return a + b a plus b a plus b
result similarly can I write m1 parenthesis yes that means m1 return m1 return value
return first m1 method executed return value substituted that value return from
this method so totally a method can be called in how many ways? Five ways. What
the five ways? As a single statement, as a variable assignment, as an operent
expression,
okay, as an operant in an expression, as a method argument, as a method, return
value. Any of the four ways I can access. In all five,
first method is executed and value will be returned. Now all the people show
your talent and tell me I am calling here wide method and nonvoid method and
tell me can I call wide method as a single statement? Yes. What happened? Uh
the method logic is executed and the return value is any value
returning from there? No. Just method logic is executed and control will be completed. That's it. And next tell me
intal. Uh now here what happened? M1 method logic is executed return value
should come and store it in a m1 method is what method I'm telling y is wide
method return any value no can I call it as a variable assignment not possible if you try to
call compiler throw error what the compile time error what the m1 method type
why variable type is data type method type is what return type what the return
type of m1 what the method type wide. Can I assign wide to the int? No.
Incompatible types. Void cannot be converted to int. And tell me can I call
non can I call wide method as an expression operand? What the meaning of this statement? Execute m1 substitute
the return value and perform this expression. Is m1 returning any value? No. That means can I use that m1 me
here? No. Uh now what is the compile time error? Void type not allowed here.
What is the compile time error? Void type not allowed here. So if you place
void there, it cannot return any value. Cannot perform any operation. So compile time error is void type not allowed
here. Next M1 of M2 of M1 allowed or not allowed?
Allowed. What the meaning of the statement? Execute M1 method. Substitute
the return value. Pass it as argument to M2. What is the value returning?
No value return. When no value return, habit can pass as argument to M2. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed.
Meaning full or meaningless? Meaningless. Then allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Compiler will throw error. What the compile time
error? I already told you
ICT only will get in the assignment.
I already told what is the error coming in expression.
uh that's why I am not giving the notes because your mind is fully only listen
write listen right not remember listen and remember just now one second
before I told you what is the error void type not allowed here what is the
comparative error void type not allowed here okay maybe
void type not allowed here or maybe incompatible types okay I'm guessing y type not allowed Here we will verify the
system. Uh next tell me now here also same not allowed because M1 not
returning any value. How can I print? Not possible. Uh next tell me here what the meaning of it return the M1 return
value. Is M1 method returning any value? No. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. What the compile time error?
Incompatible types because this is assignment. M1 method two return type is what?
Assignment. So that's why I'm expecting it is incompatible type. So two compile time errors wide type not allowed here
or incompatible types. Okay. Now guess nonwide method allowed.
Come on. Come on. Can I call non-wide method as a single statement? Yes or no? Now
you have to tell your own answer. Don't follow others. Am I asking tell me correct answer? No. Just I'm asking
allowed or not. No problem. Allowed or not allowed? Anything? Okay. Allowed or not allowed?
Allowed or not allowed? Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Why not allowed?
If you say allowed, why allowed? How do I know sir? Come on, apply your brain.
What is the meaning of this statement? M1 call control go to M1 method. Logic
is executed. Value return from that method and substituted here. Huh? Uh are
you using that return value? No. Then allowed or not allowed? That is my wish.
How can you say that? How can you force me to use it? I ask you give me 100
rupees. You gave 100 rupees to me. How I am using that 100 rupees. It's my wish.
Are throwing on the desk? It is my waste. None of your business.
You ask me to give subject. I am threatening the subject. You are using that subject or wasting that subject or
that is up to you. How dare I can question you.
Correct brother. Yes or no? Yes sir.
And I should not question you that you are not studying. Huh? How dare I am questioning her?
You only say yes sir. Okay. You paid the fees for what and you
called me ask me teach now I am teaching returning the subject to you receiving a
not receiving a sending your brain to the dream sir that's all up to you no my
job is only telling you every point explaining every point okay same story in Java also you call nonvoid method it
returns the value the return value you are using or not using it is up to you I
cannot So I can call nonvoid method as a single statement. If I call nonvoid method as a
single statement, what happen? The return value is loss.
Okay. Next. Can I call non-void method as a variable assignment? Yes. If I
assign to the variable then the value is loss of printed as stored.
Stored. Can I reuse that value in the next lines of the code? Yes. Uh this
variable type can be any type of method return type. Uh the method return type
is in. I have to take here in method return type is care. I have to take here care. Method return type is a student.
Return type should be variable type should be student. Listen the return type is in. Can I take here long?
Mother return type is int. Can I take here long? Can I store int value in the
long variable? Can I store in value in the double variable? Can I store in value in the car variable? No. Compiler
throw error. So the variable type should be either method return type or highest range should not be lesser range. Okay.
Next. Can I use as a method expression operent? Yes. Can I use as a method
argument? Yes. As a SOP argument? Yes. As a return value? Yes. So a non-wide
method we can call in all five ways. But wide method can call only in one way. All you understand? Now let us try to do
experiment.
Hey, I removed all five points. All five points removed from your brain
also now. Brenda,
is he your friend? What I said from the day beginning of demo class?
Are you animal? Then
friends.
Next
point
Same statement every day to repeat.
Next point next
meaning
teachers
responsibility.
Romance
classes.
India, Japan.
business.
We take finally degree
respect
degree. Finally, father
business.
Okay.
Huh?
It's up to you, buddy. Okay.
So the reason I'm asking you don't talk in the class with your friends. The reason is when you are talking the
surrounding people also will started listening to your voice. What are you talking? They have lot of curiosity on
your words and they they are you are breaking the their thinking flow. I
completed how to call these methods. The other students who are having the interest of learning they will start
thinking are where is main method? How to call this method? Where I can call this method? What is the next line I'm
going to write? They will start thinking. If you are started talking then their flow will also will be cut.
Again I have to restart the flow. Again I have to explain. That's why I'm requesting you don't talk in the class.
Only focus on what I am explaining and don't sit to next to your friends.
Remember that simple simple technique. If you want to control yourself talking, don't sit to the next next person. Next
person should be unknown person. Uh now daily sitting to the next person who is unknown same person. Then auto will
become what? Friended. Then after two three days, same person coming. Third day you sit on the next chair. Change
the place. No problem. It's my request. Okay, please remember
uh now I have created a class with the two methods there. These methods are not
automatically executed. We have to call them. How many ways we can call them? Five ways. Uh look at there. It is
throwing error. Cannot find our load class main method. This okay let me run this code. Then you'll get error is
what? Main method not found. So I have to define main method. where I can define main method either in the same
class or in another class. If I create in the same class, can I call them directly by their name? If I create in
the another class, can I call them directly by their name? No, I have to call
uh if you don't talk to your friends, these two points will come to your brain yourself.
Okay, you yourself will think okay now I have to create main method to call where I should call. same class another class
same class means I can call directly another class means
I have to call by using class name these thoughts will come to your mind then when I'm talking the same points when
I'm explaining the same points you will feel excited wow my thought and s thought is same wow super savashar okay
you yourself shouted you know praising yourself feeling confident
Monday I'm going to tell you something yesterday night you know uh I got one
message from your batch student okay I felt too happy my happiness you cannot
extend okay you cannot expect I get a happy tears
okay after almost five to six years I have seen I got the student who is more
concentrating of learning Java and doing something. So really yesterday night you
know when I see that message I felt so happy. I shared it to my MD also
after five years after corona before corona all students was like that point
you know they they'll start doing R&D like anything about that point and they will start working a lot their entire
free time they don't I don't find any l student before corona okay they they join the class for what
learning let me learn after course completed will I use this Java not use Java doesn't matter I joined the course,
let me spend the time, let me learn. That's it. After course completed, maybe I'll continue Java, maybe not continue
Java, changing my career to doing some other job, least bothered. I joined 3,500 I paid. Let me use 3,500 for for
reason. So this is the mindset was there before corona. After corona people are
changed, I don't know why. And the student they had I don't want to tell that Monday I will tell you because many
students are not there in the class. Again I don't want repeat. Okay. So Monday I'm going to tell you as you will
surprise definitely also feel so happy. That's how you have to work. Okay. Okay.
And now come to the word. Now I'm going to uh I'm going to write main method
here. public static v main of
string array arcs. I'm creating in the same class so that
more code no need to write. Uh now how many ways we can call a method? Five ways. Okay. Among the five ways. Okay.
Let me take all five ways. No problem. Now first way I'm calling directly by its name. Allowed or not allowed? Not
allowed. Compiler will th allowed. What the flow of execution? Uh control will go to M1 method. Uh now
logic executed. Output printed what? M1. Control return back to main method. Next
line is available in the method executed. Now
that is what flow of execution. System dot out dot print ln
double quotes main start
main end control 1 compile control 2
not control 2 uh look at that what happened m1
executed or not and the rest of the statement available in the main will be resumed
Can I call M1 method as a variable assignment intal m1? No. Compiler throw
error incompatible types. Wide cannot be converted to in.
Next in a = 10 10 into m1 I am calling.
Okay. 10 into m1 I'm calling. And now tell me I am using m1 as a operent in an
expression. Allowed or not allowed? not allowed. Compiler will throw error.
Video type not allowed here. What is the compile time error? Video type not allowed here. Okay. Next
I am calling it as a sop argument. System dot out dot print ln of uh I am
calling m1 here. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. We'll get compile time error. Wide type not allowed here. Okay.
Now this is sufficient. Uh now I am creating one more method here. Static V
static v M3 of M3 method open bracket closure bracket. I'm taking parameter
int. Now I am calling calling M1 meth sorry M3 method M3 method by passing M1
method. Uh control one compile. What the compile timer coming? wide type not
allowed here. Okay, now I'm commenting. Next I am trying to define one method
called static v M4 of now return type I
am taking int and now I'm writing return return m1 I'm calling m1 as a return
value result of the method then I got compile time error incompatible types
void cannot be converted to in here it is assignment that's why incompatible types so hope you all understand the
five ways uh Now next let us try to understand nonvideo method. I am calling
let me write one empty pen here system dot outer print length. Uh now I'm
calling m2 method as a single statement. Any problem or no problem? No problem.
What the flow of execution? Control will go to M2 method. SOP then executed or
not. M2 message is printed on the console. return keyword return this
value to the console to print or to the calling method to substitute
it return to the calling method to substitute at line number 22 the value
return and substituted at five what are you doing nothing then what happen value is lost from this line what is the
output we will get m_sub_2 only m_sub_2 is five will displayed or not displayed
or not displayed
Okay. Now only M2 we will get. Next. Can I call M2 method as a variable
assignment statement? Int equal to M_sub_2. Yes. Now tell me what happened here. First a variable memory created
equal to M2. You call is M2 going on storing in A? No. From here control will
come to M2 method definition. Is this M2 message is printed? Yes. Then return
value what? Five. Five return from this method via in command store it inside a.
Let me take a plus p. Uh return the value and store it inside p variable. Tell me now is this p variable can I
access in the next line and read and use it or not? Yes. Uh now tell me because of this statement is this five value
printed or stored or stored printed or not printed? Not printed. Can you see it
on the console? No. only we will see M2 M2 times first individual call as a
variable assignment statement call next now I am trying to call M2 method as a
SON okay as a argument okay int Q equals to 10 into M2 I have called is it
allowed or not allowed allowed then tell me what happened here m_sub_2 is called m_sub_2 message is
printed five is written substituted here. Am I right? Uh totally expression
is evaluated. Uh 10 into 5 50 is stored inside Q. Control 1. Compiled. Compiled.
Uh tell me is 50 printed on the console? No. Is 10 printed on the sorry is five
printed on the console? No. What is the output we will get on the console? Only
M_sub_2. Three * M2 printed single statement variable assignment operent.
Okay. Next. Now I'm going to call. Okay. Can I access that value here? Yes. I am
printing here P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P plus and plus Q. Uh what
the P value? Five Q value 50.
Okay. Now 51 50 in P5 is there in Q 50 is there. Everyone following? Any
confusion? Please ask. Next. Can I call can I call M1 method as a argument to M3
method? M3 of M1. Can I call? Yes. Then here uh let me take it to here and I'm
commenting this. This is a valid but I'm commenting. I want you see only storing point. Uh M3 M3 method is coming on
storing inside where a first of all is it compile or not M1 M2 now?
M2. Uh can I call it or not? Yes, compiled successfully.
Uh compile successfully. Also executed. Also executed. Uh now what happened
here? Also executed M2. Why? What happened? M2 method is called. Control
will go to M2 method. What is message printed? S4 M2. Written five. Five is
substituted here and passed to whom now? M3. Uh M3. M3 and now that value
parameter A plus A. Tell me what is the value will come to the A? Five. The five
will be printed.
Look at there. M2 executed. Return value pass it to M3. A value is what? Five.
All people are following. Next. Now I'm writing here system dot out dot print
and off system dot outprint off I am calling M2
what is printed from this line type printed
type printed five printed only five
only five M2 why M25 you call M2 control will go to
M2 method because of this SOP ln m2 printed return five the five is coming
on substituted here and pass it to print len print ln print is that five also
control one compile and control 2 executed output coming what m2 and five
everyone understand uh next tell me can I write a nonvoid
method here m5 ified by calling M2 method. Yes. Uh then tell
me here M2 method executed or not executed. I can call compile successfully because M2 method return
type is in. If I run this program here M2 executed or not executed? Not
executed. Why? Tell me when M2 method is executed. If this line is executed now,
this line should execute. Now, just because of creating variable, variable memory allocated, variable declaration
line should be executed. Now, uh similarly, just by calling a method, is the method logic executed? No, that line
has to be executed. Now, the calling line has to be executed. when this calling line will be executed
uh when you call M4. If you don't call M4, M2 is not executed. Are you catching
my point? Uh so when you call M4, then M2 executed, M2 return value five is
substituted and five will be returned to calling me. Everyone understand? So currently the M4 method is not executed.
For your understanding, let me write system dot out dot
print len of what you write here double quotes M4 I didn't call M4 method
so M4 method is not execute look
now M4 method I am calling now tell me what is the output first control will go
to M4 then this message is printed then next
M_sub_2 is called then control comes to M2. Then what is printed? M2 return
five. This five is returned to main method. M4 method. M4 method. Super.
Return five to M4 method. M2 replace with five and return five. Now this five
will return to M3 method main method. M4 calling line.
M4 calling line. Here the five is coming. The five is what happened? Loss
control one. What the total output we will get now? M4 M2 M4 M Oh no sir that
five also I want okay then call system dot out dot print len of M4 and then
five also will be print complex coder heavy coder okay now I tried little
extra in your batch M4 M2 five okay actually in the previous batch I
explained only three points direct call variable assignment sop this operator
return value all not covered. I'm thinking your batch is little intelligent little little intelligent not so much
better than previous batch. I'm just I know feeling that your batch is better than previous batch that's why little
extra I'm trying okay now that's why I'm taking little extra time also for
teaching more depth points okay now okay actually my target is complete by May 5th but I'm taking extra more time okay
now yes or May 5th closer close and I will close
no problem behalf of you I'll talk to management take permission for taking some extra
Okay. Now
uh direct statement as a variable assignment as a expression as a method
call all five approaches we tried. Okay. So if you type this program and try
coming days any question you see in the websites you can answer. Yesterday one
student has from your batch one student sent me a message saying power off the given number to find to find the power
of given number a method is called inside the method that is called method recussion. Method recussion power. So
what is the what was the statement available there? something called n into
power of n minus one something is there tell me can you understand this statement now
n into power of n minus one what is this of whenever parenthesis is there this is
a method call now what the name of the method power of what you are passing n
minus one value as argument if the n value is three then what is the value
will substituted here two what this value three 3 into power of two uh now
tell me here this power of method this method is wide or non wide
come on I am using an expression as a as a operend now it is going to power
method execute the logic and return some value that value will be substituted
here understand then three into that value is
multiplied. So some simply this one here simply this one 10 into m_sub_2. So tell
me this power method is uh a nonvoid
parameterized method. Yes or no? Because you are passing argument means what it is a parameterized and use as an
expression operand means what it is a nonvoid method. It is a nonvoid parameterized method. This kind of
logics also you will see in the coming classes. Uh listen carefully. You are now comfortably speaking, comfortably
reading any newspaper or book. Isn't it? When you born directly reading the books? No. Directly writing the notes?
No. What you did first? Listen. Next.
Speak. Then read.
Read. Then write. Write is always last step.
But you guys in Java what you are doing write in I'm unable to write a program
you wor what you are teaching two months completed still unable to write a program write a program is last
you are in a wrong thought process any language you want to learn from the
childhood your mother tongue what you learn how you learn first you started listening that's what I am doing here
also uh listen listen did I say understand anytime no always if you number listen what I'm writing Java in
Java I have nine eight programming elements what are the eight programming elements next to listen what are you
doing speaking with your parents your mother is saying ah come on better
right mama dada some words are telling then you repeating after your mother
father friends relatives first listen and speak tell me do you know the
spelling of that word do you know the letters of that word. No, silently reading. Then listen, read, listen,
read, listen, read. Now your brain is comfortable with speaking. Sorry. Listen and speak. Listen and speak. Listen,
speak. Then next you will be put in the school. In the school and are you a
super kid writing? Uh what teacher doing? Teacher now showing letters and
telling better.
Okay. Uh now Telugu Hindi a and English is what? A now you are speaking a
reading. Now your eyes you are using eyes means reading.
Mouth means speaking. Ears means listening. Listen speak.
Read. After reading teacher will give you slate slate pencil asking uh now
writer. After reading now write now you are writing ah
five times you are writing ah ah ah okay so finally you got ah listen ah whenever
you listen ah now you are visualizing in your brain or not uh when brain visualization will come only when you
write but to come to the writing stage lot of efforts are required.
First listen, then speak then read then write then brain will get full
understanding. So you will get a writing capacity slowly slowly slowly it's a
process. Don't expect everything right in the beginning day first day. Uh by today you are in a capacity of writing
programs. Front end screens presentation layer completed. Now
currently we are understanding business logic development, presentation logic completed. A project has totally three
logics are there. Presentation logic, business logic, persistence logic. How
many logics are? Three logics. A project is divided into three parts. MBC
architecture. As part of MBC architecture, we have three logics are there. First view presentation logic.
Second controller business logic. Third
persistence logic model persistence logic presentation logic nothing but the screens what you are seeing. Okay, by
using that screens you are giving input you are taking that input background in the second program performing validation
that value is right or wrong. If right, generate the result. Do calculation generate result. If wrong, throw
exception. That validation calculation portion is called what? Business logic.
Where I should write business logic inside main method? Our own method. Our own method. That is what we are
learning. As part of now variables, methods we are learning what developing business logic. And once you write
business logic, is it automatically executed? No. I have to call how to call
front end screen. After inputting the data in the text boxes you click on submit button. The moment when you click
on submit button background the method will be called which is available. How many times I have to call this method?
One time repeatedly when button is clicked. How many times you click on the button? Many times how many times you
click those many times. Uh now tell me this method should just print a value return the value. Sometimes just to
print, sometimes should return. For printing purpose what we required void method. For returning purpose what
method you have to create? Nonvoid method. Are you catching my point? So
presentation logic development scanner write a program main method scanner for
reading SOP for printing. Read presentation logic is meant for print
the information read value print the result. So that is the three information already completed on our Java
fundamentals. Then logical programming we learn how to do validations, how to
store data, how to do validations and calculation completed. Where we have written that logic in the main method.
The logic we have written in the main method directly is not reusable. Then we are creating our own methods for making
it reusable. When you write the logic for making it reusable, sometimes I want to print result, sometimes I should
return the result. So I have to create method as a void and non-void. If I create method as a void non-void method
are they automatically executed? No, we have to call them inside the main
method. Then if you call from the main method if it is a void method, how many ways we can call? Only one way as a
single statement. If you if you find a method as a nonvoid method, how many ways we can call? Five ways. Any of the
five ways based on your requirement you can call. So if you remember practice and remember this story and slowly if
you started writing these small small sample program and I gave you two websites remember if we started working
on prepinstar.com that website program slowly your mind will be get maturity
oho here this is a void method that's why directly called oho this is a nonvoid method that's why called as a
argument called as a return value called as a operant expression called as a sop
argument directly printing that ideas you will get. Uh tell me now once you
learn your mother tongue you want to become a cinema uh songs lyricist what
we call him uh so songwriter you want to become just with a regular uh your
mother tongue can you write the songs you need lot of poetry lot of vocabulary
then how can I get this lot of vocabulary and poetry just by listening the real world by reading so many books
sir if you get more experience, you should start more reading existing things. You
have to start read generally if you if you join any spoken English course, your teacher will tell every day you should
read newspaper. Why? Because you have to collect so many vocabulary, so much of grammar, so much
of sentences where you can get the grammar sentences from the newspaper. Tell me, do you have any Java
newspapers? No. So that's why we have some websites. You have to read that Java websites.
When you're reading Java websites, they have developed some programs. If they have written logic in the main method,
what is your responsibility? Extract that logic from the main method
and write in your own method as a void methods and nonvoid methods and
parameterized methods. Are you following? When you visit a website in that website one logic suppose write a
program to find given number palendrome or not. Now he has written logic everything in the main method reading
the number from the keyboard and down he has written the logic to find the given number palendrome or not. Uh now copy
that program from the website open your system edit plus paste
run it compile run you'll get output then you should not feel happy ch this program main is meant for what executing
logic not for writing logic yes or noh now the cooker is meant for eating the
food or preparing the food in the cooker only you are preparing the
food cooker only you are mixing the food and there only eating people look at and [Music]
Okay. So you have separation now. Cooker for preparing the food, plate for eating
food. So here plate is nothing but what? Main method.
Okay. Cooker is nothing but what? M1 method. Our business logic method user defined method. So extract the logic
from the main method. Place in the our own method. Call it from main. If tell
me I want to tell the given number is pal and roma or not. You can say two
things. Number one in that method only print yes the given number palendrome. Yes the given number is not palendrome.
If I write the logic like that then are using all the knowledge you gain in the class. No. What the knowledge you gain?
Return. What you should return? Yes. Palandrome. No not palendrome. Yes. Palandrome. No. Palandrome means what?
Boolean. The method return type should be what? Boolean. Then after finding the palendrome if you
find the given number palendrome return true. If the given number is not palendrome return false. Then in the
main method when you call this method it is telling is a palendrome not a palendrome or return true false return
true false. Then we should write further if condition if true. Okay that method
return value is true then write snn number is p valent. Else number is not p
valent. Understand? If you write the code like this with method, with return type, with
a parameter and with if condition, else block uh tell me you will be called
what? Amir developer, experienced developer. Whatever the knowledge you gain in the
class by using this knowledge, you should find one program on the website and start build the code. You have to
convert that entire program by including the entire knowledge you gain up to now. Once you are writing a program in that
program you must see every topic you learn should present in that program somehow that is what becoming
experienced then with this knowledge when you go to interview when you are writing the program ah interviewer feel
I got my experienced person please join in my company the interviewer will beg
you to join not you are begging interviewer want what skilled employee you know uh yesterday one student send
message to me saying that sir I am from BCOM uh 2016 passed out sir I have three
years of experience can I get job or not you want job or you don't want job I
want a job if you feel you want job you will get job if you feel can I get a job or not you will not get job
if you yourself doubting you then who will believe you'll give the job you
have to tell to the company I am 2016 passed out because
these many years I am free but I have the full knowledge of Java if you give me job I'll show my talent come on how
can you prove yourself that you are a talented person uh he has to cover the cover up that gap with a certification
Java certification Oracle company is conducting one exam on Java Oracle
Corporation is the author of the Java now so he's conducting one exam if you pass that exam and put that exam
certificate on your resume then your B techa B comma BSEI MSEI MBAN doesn't
matter for me what I want Java skilled employee certified employee come on I
will call you for the interview and because you come clear the certification I don't give job again I will do my
interview if you perform well in the interview with all the knowledge you gain in a proper order if you prepare
the program tell me why you will not get the job if it is a recision or non-recision is not reached mother
because companies are always want employees. Companies always want employees but what
employees in recession period we want only skilled employee. If huge projects are there in the company countwise I
want dull people also we want counterwise I'll show to the company I mean count wise I'll show the client and
then I'll get more money. Are you catching my point? So work the
knowledge. First you try to get the topic. I am explaining definition
purpose program compilation execution flow of execution. You have to write
arrow marks from here control come here a variable memory created execution and
then return value return coming here substituted pass it the complete aromax
you write memory draw that execution flow once you visualize for four five programs the next programs automatically
your brain will visualize no need to write what I'm saying understanding what I'm
saying this analyzation capacity you should improve you should always work on
one technique a R or V analyze visual realize visualize analyze
what I want I want find given number palendrome or not to find given number palendrome or not I should write logic
in main method my own method my own method if I write logic inside main method is a reusable no so I should
write in my own method first you analyze now let us realize what the realization okay I decided to create a method now
this method should be a parameterized method and nonparameterized method should be a parameterized method because
I have to take a number now how many how many parameters one parameter then what
the name of the method method name should be always operation what you want to find
palendrome or not ask in English
is palendrome palendrome or not and question then what the mother name is palent
meth should be not palendrome or not. You should ask is palendrome. Uh is
palendrome pcap letter bracket into number open bracket. Then if this method
found the given number is palentro I should return true. If found not palent row I should return false. Uh method
return type is what? Boolean. this method business operation method or mathematical operation method business
mathematic because it's working on a number if it is a mathematical operation do I required object of the class not
required not required then declare the method as a static and you want to access this method only within the same
class outside class outside class then private or non-private non-private this is called realization
then after creating the method with the logic Okay. Now you have to go to main method. Call that method and then start
visibleize the flow. I call the method from your control go there. Take the
value logic executed return true. Uh true I have to store in a variable
boolean palendrome. What the variable name? Palandro. Generally in the C language boolean
variable name people create as a flag. Which flag? India flag. US flag. UK flag
a flag don't use the word flag it's meaningless
what do you write boolean palendrome is palendrome the variable name is what
palendrome equal to the method you call down observe if flag meaningful no if
palendrome meaningful Yes.
Okay. Now they feeling flag. You feel it's not good. Listen. Simple. If flag
meaningful. What is this flag? Okay.
E is Armstrong. E is a even number. E is a natural number. You put any flag. Flag
one. Flag two. Flag three, flag four. Understand? Someone has started wrong
process. Generation, generations, we are following the same wrong process. At least your generation change.
Take proper name, proper meaningful name. Boolean palendrome down. If
palendrome s ln given number is palendrome. Else given number is not
palendrome. Which is meaningful? If a flag meaningful is if a palendrome meaningful if palendrome meaningful you
write if palendrome by seeing your program he will realize
oh yeah this is a good flag is not a good
someone has started C language teaching with a name called flag C people C++
people Java people blindly following let us change but pronunciation wise we say
it's a flag variable Flag means what? According to electronics, flag and true false. Okay. Now the same thing people
are using in computers also. But don't use the name as a flag. Pronounce it as a flag variable. But name you take
proper meaningful. All the people started using the methods in your learning process. I think already from
the preprinstar.com you have already started some uh uh programs creation in
that he used user defined method main method. Main method return logic inside main
method. Then convert into go back go back to the first program convert everything as what user defined method
with return type and parameter. Return type you want to tell is even or odd
boolean. You want return a message string. You want return number uh int or
double. You want return one class object class name. You want return multiple values array. Okay. And call that
method. How many ways we can call method? Five ways I have shown which approach is suitable for your project.
In that way you have to call. Are you catching my point? Will you work out?
If not you are going to fail. You will not become experienced developer.
Uh these all the points we have completed. Now just check what is a void method.
A method whose return type is void is called void method. What is a non-wide method?
A method whose return type is the data type is called data type either
primitive or reference is called non-wide method. When should we create method as a wide method? When we no need
to return value either we are printing or storing then we call we will create method as a void. When should we create
method as a nonvoid? If we need to return value as a result
then we have to choose method as nonvideo only value or object also. Now object if you want if you need to return
value or object as a return value as a result then we should use nonvoid method. On what basis we must choose a
return type to the method based on the type of the value or type of the object returning from this method. How can we
return a value from a method? By using the keyword return. How many different how many forms are there to the return
keyword? Two forms. Return semicolon. Return value semicolon. What is the purpose of return semicolon? Return
value semicolon. Return semicolon meant for terminate the method execution.
Return the control to calling method without value. Return value semicolon is used for terminating the method
execution. Return the control to calling method with value. What are the rules in using return semicolon? It is allowed
only inside void method and it is optional. Return value semicolon is
allowed only inside nonvideo method and it is mandatory. What are the rules we must follow in creating void method?
Void method can be empty method. Return value semicolon should not be used. What are the rules we must follow in in
creating a non-wo method? Non-wide method cannot be empty method. We must return value. The returning value must
be uh return value can be either same return type of value or it's a lesser type. Highest range incompatible cannot
be used. What are the different ways we can invoke a method? Uh five ways we can
invoke method as a single statement as a variable assignment as a method ar
as a expression par expression operent as an expression operent as a method
argument as a method return value. What are the rules we must follow in calling a void method we can call only one way
directly as a single statement. What are the rules we must follow in calling a non-void method? I can call in all five
ways. But when you assign as a variable uh when we assign to a variable or
passing as a method returning from the method the data type should be compatible. If you take lesser type
compiler throw error incompatible type compiler throw error. Then sample project just now mathematics based one
project I have explained. Shall we try object- oriented based program? Now
these all the points these all the slides I will upload.
Okay. Diagram also I gave you clearly arrow marks and everything. Hope you will work out at home. Uh write down
this question.
Okay. First let us try to develop a small mathematics program then go for this one. Okay. So if I show you
mathematics because in website most of the questions will be on math only. Right. First let us try to develop
mathematics based code. Develop a program. uh with a userdefined method.
Develop a program with a userdefined method.
Develop a program with a userdefined method. To take
to take a number
a number as argument
a number as argument. And
one second.
Huh? Develop a program.
Develop a program. What it does
with a with an user defined method
to take a number as an argument.
Find whether it is even or odd
and return result.
If even return true, else return false.
In calling method, print
message to the user
the given number.
Number is even
first you try to develop then I will help you to write code.
How many classes you will develop? How many methods you will develop? One class
from the day beginning I am teaching you never mix main method class with userdefined logic class. You have to
create two classes. One class with userdefined method, another class with main method. Try try to write yourself.
simple program right uh first what right
bundari be in the class so that you will hear my audio if you're going that side
this side coming suddenly to the class they'll not hear my audio Okay.
Uh how many classes you have to create? Two. What the first class name?
Even or order.
Uh next another class is what? Even or odd.
So this is your programs development template. Whenever you see develop a
program means always you have to visualize two classes. Uh inside this
class you are developing business-based application or mathematics based
then static. Now you want to return boolean value right even or odd boolean method name is
is even we don't check is odd is even only we will check is even bracket uh
in some number into nu don't x y z take proper method names num number
uh you always collect the names from the question what I asked develop a program
with a userdefined method to take a number. So you can take the shortcut num
or number. Always remember collect the names from the question. Don't decide yourself. Uh tell me inside this one
what I have to write. Uh if uh excellent if
number mod 2 equal to equal to zero. Excellent.
Uh then what I should write? Excellent. Return true. Wonderful. More or less. Uh
then else uh what you write? Return false. Super. That's it. Any SOP ln
statements? No. This program not asking you to print anything. It is asking you to return result. What result? True or
false? If even return true. If false return um if not. If odd, return false.
So tell me user defined method implementation completed. Now in a calling method who is the
calling method main method in calling method print message to the user. So first you call that method. How to call
boolean? Uh one second I should read the input from the user. Now first I am taking
this class as a separate Java file. Always remember you have to create it as
a separate Java file. Even or odd dot java save it even or odd dot java
where I mean
okay save okay then come here what I should do I should read number from the
user user means what end user how to read number from the user import java dot util dot scanner uh Then main method
scanner sen equal to new scanner of
system in okay and then boolean sorry I have to read number system dot out dot
print len print off print off double quotes enter number
uh enter number the enter number I have to take into local variable in number equal to s and next int and then now
number is ready in my hand I should pass that number what the variable name flagger
variable name flagger flag okay uh no meaningful I want you want to verify
what even or odd I'm taking even boolean even equal to
what I should write I should call the method I should write logica Call the method what I have tried even
or odd dot what the method name is even
or odd is even by passing what number what you have taken number even or odd
what I pass number. Uh tell me now first step which class
you are compiling test even or odd. Then main method execution started. Scanner
object created connected to the keyboard. Then enter number message is printed on the console. Now next in
method pass the program execution and reading the number stored in the local variable number. Then even or odd do is
even number method is called by passing that number. Control come here. This number variable is filled with what the
argument value which class I should import lax
why
why should I import different file import is meant for importing file
importing package
Now is there any package to this class?
Now import required or not required.
And now tell me again even or odd do is even method control is going and with
what given number now the number is coming here number divided by two remainder comparing with zero if zero
then returns true else returns false then from this method control come back from the even is even method and this
line is replaced is even method is a wider non- wider
just now we have completed learning wide non-wide So the method is a nonvoid method. Can I assign nonvoid method to a
variable? Yes. Uh now I have assigned to a variable.
Then this variable filled with what? True or false? If true print
even if false print odd. Now what I have to verify if even equal to equal to
true. Okay. Now yes. Okay. Now if even equal to equal to true
open bracket closed bracket system dot out dot print and off print and off what
message double quotes the
given number. Where is that number? Num plus double quotes is even
else open bracket closed bracket copy paste the given number number is odd.
Okay. Now,
huh? What the problem? True equal equal to true. Can't you compare?
Can you compare boolean values or not? Yes sir.
Come on. Any compile time error? No compile time error.
You want to eat food from the bonding you take into first plate
again moving from this plate to next plate. From that plate to again third plate. Now in the third plate you are
eating in go. Why are moving from one plate to another plate?
Time based no number of plates are increasing washing problem is increasing or not
already even variable is true false why are you comparing again with true
aravendra this is what the bad programming you will follow if you write this one C
style this is a C style in C language all faculties will write even though variable name is boolean they will write
equal to equal to true they will Right. I don't know why more clarity what more clarity clarity if you write like this
then the enter your look at your face and ask
and pressure non-experienced person blindly you are learning. So this is
correct but this a bad programming.
Why bad programming? Because even is already
boolean. Again why you are generating boolean? Can I write directly? If even yes if
even true. If true directly execute if even false go to else block. Understand?
Control 1 compile. Control to execute.
Enter number 10. The given number 10 is even control to uh
uh uh enter number uh 15. 15 is a odd
result coming up. Previously also the same result we will get but extra time will take because of that worst
comparison unnecessary comparison.
Enter number 10 even. Enter number 15 odd.
Okay. Uh now tell me what we are planning to understand in this program. Whatever we learn from the first day to
till today all points are there. Reading data from the keyboard and store
available. Uh data types available operators
available. Control flow statements available. Today we discussed what? Yesterday we discussed methods methods.
What type of method? Wide non-wide method. Wide non-wide method. Uh static
non-static method. Calling method as directly by class name. Static non-static method. Whatever we have
learned up to now every point I have included in this code with the coding
standard correctly writing code. If you write directly even equal to equal to true. This is correct compiler wise JVM
is correct but bad programming because even is already true. Comparison not required.
Extra double equal to is not required. Understand? Everyone comfortable? Are
you experienc
the interviewer I am a tumor pressure from Amir Pa or I am an experience
fresher from HK I'm HK product if you want to prevent an
HK product you should be an experiencer every minute you have to think like
can I reduce can I reduce can I reduce I told you inside if you are writing
only one statement don't write body why you writing body I'm comfortable sir
comfortable behave like experience remove that body
not easy to read sir habituate this is the right way of writing code
understand if you are writing body then you'll be considered as a pair
okay you are a 2023 24 pass and writing this code with the body with the das.
Okay, no problem. Accepted. If you are a trying job as an experienced person with
two years or three years of experience, if you write body immediately they will ask
immediately we can catch based on the way you're writing and you know 20 years of experienced trainers also they are
writing broad down like this.
Okay, they're climbing themselves. I'm a very experienced faculty but they don't know Java syntaxes. And some people will
write
faculty students. Okay. I don't know why they were there
writing like this. Why they are bringing outside.
Okay. Be careful now. No. Don't be getting into trap. You should write bracket here only. You should write
indentation here only. Else block where here only. like this only you should
write. If you write then only you'll be considered as experienced developer. Okay my dear developer and brackets
don't write. Okay. Try to avoid writing. Next
are you experienced pressure? Experienced
experienced uh brackets not required. Remove the brackets.
Okay. Okay, I will I will rewrite the code. I don't want uh remove this code because I want you see your talent now.
Okay, next. What is the right way of writing? When you are writing only one statement, don't write brackets. Remove
the bracket. Remove the bracket. Remove the bracket. Remove the bracket. Save it. Any compile time error? No. Uh come
back. Any runtime error? No.
I'm passing 10. 10 is a even I'm passing 15. Come on.
I'm passing 15. 15 is a odd. No problem. Okay. I can avoid writing the bracket
again. I'm asking question. Are you fresher experience?
Turnary operators open. Marvelous if you write if else doing the same
logic what I ask you to use turnary operator what the logic you are writing
return so what I should write return one time okay uh what is the condition you
have to write number mod 2 equal to equal to zero question mark true colon
false wonderful save it control one compile excellent Excellent buddy.
Excellent. Marvel or uh execute by giving what? 10 is even control
three. Exe what? 15 result is okay. Now understood.
Okay. Again I'm asking same question. Are you pressure experienced?
are a brainless mindless fellows.
Number mod 2 equal to equal to zero already generating true false. Huh?
Rabbi understand number mod 2 equal to equal to0. It
itself is generating true and false. I pass number 10. 10 10 mod 2 0 equal to
equal to0 true.
Understand my point. Why you are writing if else are turnary operator for returning true and false when it is
generating true already? If I pass 15 15 mod 2 equal to equal to
0 false if false return false picture
my point already I am telling true why you are again say true double time if you true return true if false return
false understand the mistake you did uh that's
why I'm asking are you pressure experience written number mod 2=
0
one line. Why extra if else conditions are turnary
operator not required? Because the expression itself is generating boolean.
No sir, I want to return here string even odd words. I want return then you
have to write if else if true return double quotes even if
false return double quotes odd then if else or turnary operator is required
understand if you want to return the expression generated value itself true
false then why extra required not required but I'm keeping all okay now
different ways so this is the one line shortcut answer don't write this extra
mash in the interview if you write if else return true if else return false
then look at your face again from
wonderful so that's why how you can understand what to write what not to
write that's what read more programs if you read more ideas we will get so I can
make you listen I can make you speak I can make you Right.
Right. Now you have to more read. How many more programs you read and practice
that much more experience and that much more visualization you will get. Hope
you will work now. Uh like this I explain you even uh now you write what
is a palendrome. E is a natural number. E is a prime number. E is a whole number. E is Armstrong number. E is a
strong numbers and calculate. Okay. Huh? Right. So this is the standard program template. Now you have
to go for writing the code by your own. Okay. Thank you. That's all for today class. I hope all the people understand
wide non-wide methods. Okay. Now I'll also upload the project on object orientation. You try to
understand you read understand. Okay. Uh tomorrow no class other classes of
narity is running tomorrow. Only my class is not there tomorrow. Next class will be on Monday as usual. Clear? Thank
you. That's all for today class.
Why? Garbage collection shop.
From next month my exam is se
what? Take break.

