ript


Uh right. Good morning everyone. Last class we are trying to understand
binding fields and methods.
Okay, tell me what is the meaning of binding fields and methods?
Sorry. Uh connecting variables and methods
means accessing variables. Variables are fields. Uh accessing fields from
methods. Accessing fields from methods. Accessing fields from methods
is called what?
Bind.
Some people call it as binding or some people call it as wrapping.
Okay. Some people call it as binding. Some people call it as wrapping.
What the meaning of wrapping? Wrapping means covering. Who is covered
by whom? Huh?
Peels are covered by methods.
Binding or wrapping.
So last class we completed binding fields and methods. Binding means connecting the process of accessing
fields of a class from its methods or binding fields and methods. For example,
I am taking a class called book. The book class contain a field called what? Book ID. Now this book ID I want to
return from a method. I don't want to directly provide access to this field. I
want to provide by a method. Then uh now book ID is accessed inside get book ID
method. Uh this connecting field with a method is called binding or wrapping. Is
it clear? Now why should I do what the need of accessing or binding field with
its methods to perform four operations in a repeated way in a reusable way?
initializing object, reading object data, modifying object data, printing
object data in a reusable way for every object created from this class. So uh we
access or bind fields with a methods to perform four operations initializing,
reading, modifying, printing in a reusable way. Then tell me what is the
meaning of object initialization, reading, modifying, printing values? Object initialization means storing.
Object reading object means taking the values. Modifying means changing the
values. Printing means displaying. For performing these four operations are now
initializing, storing, reading, taking out, modifying, changing, printing, passing to SOP. These are four
operations I can perform in how many ways? Four ways. Four ways I can perform. How many operations? Four
operations. How many ways? Four ways. Four operations, four ways. Tomorrow is
holiday. Okay. Tomorrow
if tomorrow holiday, today also if you give holiday then we would be 3 days long weekend holiday we can take. No,
you should have common sense. Okay. Right. Next time don't do that mistake.
Okay. Alert tomorrow because of holiday. Happier not happier?
Not happy. Okay. But we have to be happy.
Okay. S right. And now tell me now the Sunday shall we have class?
Some new chapter I want to take. Okay. Now not regular chapter new chapter I want to take. If you are okay then I
will take. Yes sir. Okay. This class this Sunday I'm planning logical programming on strings.
So strings you didn't teach you sir I will teach the same day. What is a string? Tell me what is a string?
String is a sequence of characters placed in the double quotes. Already you know now what is a string? String is a
sequence of characters placed in the double quotes. What the use of string? String is used for storing characters
data in the Java program. How can we store characters data? by creating object from string class. Should I
create object or automatically create a uh what I have to do? I should write inside double quotes. Already you know
string but you don't know string operations. String class contain inbuilt
methods. String class contain inbuilt 45 methods are there. How many methods? 46. One
more. Okay. Totally 46. Okay. If you count extra I mean overloaded forms also
totally 56 methods are there sorry 55 methods are there totally 55 methods
available in string class string buffer and string builder some extra classes
are there those classes also contain some extra 10 methods totally 65 methods
only available only only 65 methods available if you know
the 65 methods purpose and on each method one small program one small program then you will be comfortable
with that okay uh so this is Sunday I wanted to start string handling operations mean string string handling
based programs this Sunday if you complete it's okay if not completed we'll go for next Sunday until completed
we will have Sunday classes on string handling any objection uh people who are not interested to
learn they will not come people who are interested they will come okay so that uh we will be better than the people who
are taking rest in the room right okay Sundays we are going to plan classes from this Sunday as I promised I'm
taking Sunday classes also should I take Sunday classes actually do I need to take no
is management forcing me to take no is the student forcing me to take no it's my interest I am taking I want to give
more knowledge okay no need to cover part what you call 65 65 methods no need
to cover simply I can cover two to three methods and and I can say remaining methods you practice I can dictate I can
share the material and I can ask you to practice yourself so but I'm not doing that I'm going to explain you so please
try to come to the class Sunday if you spend more time how many more Sundays
two or three Sundays within two or three Sundays we can complete our extra knowledge and also we can complete our
syllabus okay now fine now come to the point we have four ways to perform above
Four operations. What the four operations? Accessing variables directly by their name. V setter and getter
methods. V constructor. V blocks. Sir, what the meaning of setter getter? Name
of the method. Tell me is it a method or not? The
method name starts with. So this method is called getter method. A method for getting the
value of the field is called what? Get method. A method meant for setting the value to the object field is called
what? Setra method. A method meant for deposit is called not depositor method
deposit. Okay. A method meant for withdraw is called withdraw. A method meant for sleep is called. Wow.
Wonderful. A me for eat is called based on the operation you are performing the
method name will be defined. That's all. Uh. So in last class I told first approach what the first approach
accessing variables directly by their name. So suppose I'm taking class example and then class test two objects
created accessing variables directly for setting the value printing the value
setting the value printing value setting first time is called initialization reading reading and second time setting
is called modify and again reading. So I have to repeat same code for second object. Is it good idea, bad idea, bad
idea? Then what to do? It is a wrong design code. It has several problems.
Code redundancy. Redundancy means what I told? Same code repeating again. When I
modify, I have to test again and again. Modify and test. Then we call it as
what? Code redundancy. No centralized code change. What the meaning of centralized code change? If you modify
the code in one place, is that modification applied to all objects? No. Then we call it as nonentralized code.
Uh next, no security to data. What I told anyone can access the data. Then we
call it as what? No security. Wrong values can be stored. What the meaning of wrong values? Okay.
Our program want only positive numbers. But you are storing negative numbers. My program only required after 18 ID. Water
ID can be allowed to what age people? 18 plus, right? 18 plus age only. Water ID
will be available. But you are a 10 plus years only. Seriously, you're going standing in the line and go to water
office and say, "Hey, register one water card for me will be given to you." No.
Then age is right value or wrong value? Wrong value. So you have to verify. And next wrong values can be stored. And
next code is not readable here. What are you doing? Here what are you doing here? What are you doing? Is logic has a name
or no logic? No name. No name. I want to provide name to the logic. For that we have introduced
come on. We have introduced methods. Second approach we started working with methods. What is the advantage of the
method? Method is used for writing logic one time and reuse that
logic many places and for every object. For multiple objects same logic I can
use. for multiple places same logic I can rule that is called what reusability
methods are meant for reusing okay where should I create method you should question where should I create method I
have two classes class example class you are writing methods for which ob which
class data example class then I should define methods in which class example
class if I'm writing logic for test class data I should write methods in the test class so one thing you have to
remember for whom I am writing logic. I am writing logic for example class. So
define the method in class example. Okay. What what is the syntax I have to use for following? What are the
questions I have to ask? Question number one. What who has to access? Same class
other classes also only same class private other classes also allowed non-private. Non-private means either
default or protected or public. Sir to use a default protected public. You didn't explain me sir. I will explain as
a separate chapter not now okay at this minute only remember one thing private non-private okay when to use default
when to use protected you should have a knowledge on package chapter do you know packages no so that you will not get
clarity on the topic even if I explain also so that's why just remember private and non-private next point is very
important now I want allow the method for storing values in x and y only
within the class example other classes also other class for the private and non-private non-private then I am
developing this method logic for non-static variables values or other
variables I am writing the method to do changes on the non-static variables other variables
are other variables other variables means static or parameter or local or no
variables again repeating just I want to print some message then method should be non-static or statica
I just want to print a message then method should be static. If I create non-static any compile time error no for
calling this method you have to create object that object memory construction time is waste now when I create object
of this example class X and Y variables are provided memory those X and Y variables only we are using inside the
method so method I must call by using object inside the methodology if you are
using non-static variables then you have to create that method as non-static
inside method logic object you are not using non-static variables either you are using static variables or parameter
or local variable or no variable just s statement you are writing then we have
to create that method as a static again repeating for static variables can I
create method as a non-static can can I create method as a non-static
yes but will we create no what is the problem compile Runtime error no runtime
error no unnecessary performance issue for calling this method I have to create
object is that object means non-static variables available in the object are using inside the method no are you
catching my point accepted accepted don't try to understand accepted understanding points are different
accepting points are different I am creating one method then I have to take decision this method should be private
or non-private this method logic only within the same class to use no other classes also should use. Then should
create method as a non-private. I am creating method. I should create this method as a static or non-static. On
what basis I have to take decision generally methods we create for what? Performing operation on static variable
and non-static variable. Uh inside the methodology I am not accessing
non-static variable then create that method as static ruler recommendation.
Everyone I gave two options. is one option you choose right or wrong or no problem if you don't answer I'll get
angry you give answer either right or wrong no problem I will support if you give wrong answer I will correct if you
give right answer feel so smiled okay so happy and smile and go to next point
empty face silent looking how do I know
you How many days he'll sit silently? Empty faces. I'm giving two options. Ruler
recommendation. Which option is right? Second option
question. Two options. Second option is always correct. Try to tell second option. Sometimes I will give wrong
option as a second option. No problem. You tell second option. I will correct it and take you to first option. Then
your mind will think this fellow sometime changing. I should be careful.
Okay. If you are not answered silently if you see it finally face the problem in the coming classes. Okay.
Multi-threading chapter array you will die like anything. You will cry like anything. Collections more you will cry.
If you want a happy smile in multi-threading collections chapter teaching time then you should be good at
basics. So you have to reply. Come again. I am creating method. On what basis I should decide whether as a
static or non-static depending on logic of the method inside the method logic I
am binding method logic to the static variables I am binding method logic to static variables method should be ruler
recommendation if I take method as a non-static any compile time error no
calling time I have to create object memory based I am creating method only parameters I'm
using logic Static or non-stratical? Static. If I create non-static any compile time error no calling time I
have to create object. Next I inside the method I only using local variables then
the method should be static or non-static. Static. Uh if I don't use any variables then also static. When I
should create method as a non-static only if I am binding the method logic to non-static variables. Why I should
create method as a non-static? Is it a ruler recommendation or ruler? Non-static method is rule. Why? If you
create method as a static, you will call directly. If you call directly, non-static variable memory read from
which object that information must be available to me. Now, E1 object, E2 object, E3 object information must be
available to method. For that E1 dot, E2 dot I have to call for that method should be non-static.
Uh so final conclusion when to choose method as static non-static inside
methodologic I am accessing non-static variable create method as a non-static
else compiler throw error in all other cases you are not accessing non-static
variable create method as a static creating method as a static ruler recommendation recommendation if I
create method as a non-static compile time error runtime error performance issuer
Because we create we must create object. Now tell me object oriented programming
means static members based programmer non-static members based programmer
non-static members based program. Repeating again stat object oriented
programming means non-static members based program. Static concept is just
main concept or helping concept. Helping concept for saving the memory.
Non-static means what? Multiple copies of memory. Am I right? Static means
what? One copy and without object. Whenever you need to execute logic
without variables means object required or not required, not required. Then we have to take that method as what? Static
method. Is it clear everyone? Uh repeat once again. What is the difference between static non-static method? Static
method must be called and execute by using object because inside the method
non-static variables are accessed. Uh non static means what can be executed
without object because inside the method we are not using any non-static variables. Remember that point. Okay.
Anyways notes also I will share you. Finally tell me class example index into Y. uh now I am writing method logic
inside this method I have to create a method inside this method I have to access what variables non-static
variable method should be static or non-static non-static so that this method must be called by using object so
that this non-static variables can be accessed from the object uh now tell method is non-private no
keyword I'm writing method is non-static no keyword next what is the purpose of this method returning value or setting
value sir uh for setting values method should be y or non y method name is what set
parenthesis open bracket closed bracket what is the target of this method writing this initialization logic inside
this method are you following sir same topic again you are explaining yes because you are gist
okay you are gajist and one day holiday came and you forgot I know everything is vanished from your brain and moreover I
didn't upload this topic in last class because my laptop top is getting problem and in the system here only so that's
why I'm unable to uh upload now no problem just more five five minutes I will complete this topic and tell me is
this code compiler not compiled uh huh this code compiler not compiled not
compiled compiler throw error because of E1 because of E1 this even variable
belongs to set method and main method can I access main method variable in the set method no suppose Suppose if it is
allowed to access still it is a wrong idea. If I write E1 dot this method will work only for E1 object. We are writing
method for specific to one object or reusable for all objects. Then I should not write E1 dot.
Uh next one X = 10 X= 10 Y= 20. Any compile time error? No compile time
error. But what is the problem? You will call this method with object or without object
without object that method is non-static.
Second option you are saying
okay with object or without object I'm telling second option you told second option is right it is my mistake no I'm
giving wrong option as second option come on come on I should call this method with object or without object
with object because this is static or non-static non-static method I must call by using object how you call E1 dot set
again E2 E2 dot set if you call E1 set XY variables are memory accessing from
which object E1 1020 stored in E1 and next when I write E2 dots set
1020 are stored in E2 that means all objects are initialized with
same values 1020 is it a good idea bad idea uh what to do now
I have to fix the values I should read values uh From where I can read values
two places from the keyboard scanner from other programmer parameter what I should use
keyboard parameters parameters we are creating this set method for for end
user purpose for main method programmer purpose main method from other programmer I can read only values to
read values what I should define parameters 1020 is remote and what is there A comma
inb understood? Uh tell me int what will be placed here? P and q
any compul? No. Is this pro is this method static nature or dynamic nature?
It is a dynamic dynamic code method. It is a dynamic for two people. Number one
for object it is a dynamic for values also dynamic.
for object dynamic for values also dynamic only people visualize what is
the syntax for calling the set method to call set method before set I should
mention the object now uh which object E1 what you write now E1 dot set of what
values 10 visualize how to call method once you
define method is it automatically executed I have to call how to call a method. If it is a non-static method,
non-static method, I must call by using object. If it is a parameterized method,
I must pass arguments. H tell me now E1 dot set of 10, 20. Tell
me this first line. Read this first line. X equal to P. Is it X= P? Now,
E1.X equal to P. Second line.
Online students, are you speaking? If you don't speak you'll become dumb fellow. If you speak you'll become
developer. I repeat again. This is set method definition. From the main method how can I call E1 dot set of 10 comma
20. Then inside set method how can I write the statement? E1 dot x = p.
Second statement E1 dot Y = Q is E1 10
20 are automatically substituted there in the logic by JVM or yes I have
written the logic common to all objects but this method logic is automatically changed specific to first object
specific to second object specific to third object based on the method call inside main method tell me how to call
that method in the main method like this come on come on I call what e1 dot set
of 10 comma 20. Uh tell me what now control is coming from main method into
where set method students can you see the arrow mark from the main method e1
set of 10a 20 control is coming to which method set method into example class uh
inside set method what is the p value 10 what the q value 20 everyone come on p
value 10 q value 20 uh x what the statement meaning of this statement e1
dox = 10 e1 means which object tended E1 equal to new example in the main method
E1 equal to new example can you see there X and Y variables available
uh now tell me first statement E1X equal to P means control is going from set method to main method into E1 pointing
X0 replace with 10 are you able to understand the flow of execution very
important uh next one when I write E1 doy= Q what happen
uh E1 doyal Q Means Q replace with what? 20. E1. Y means where it will go from
the set method. It will go to main method to the E1 pointing object. Uh Y
variable zero replace with 20. Are you able to visualize? Really?
Yes. Uh next uh tell me set method execution completed. Control come back to uh
control come back to main method. Next line E2 dot set of30 comma 40. All
online students you have to speak along with me. Uh in the main method E2 dot set of 30A 40 when I write what happened
tell me again control come to the set method with the same values and new values. What are the what the values are
coming? Three values are coming.
What the three values are coming? Look look
ah E2 also coming now if E2 not coming from main method to set method how it
can go to E2 object repeat again when you write E1 dot set of 10 comma 20 how many values are
coming to set method three not two three first one is what
second one third totally how many values are going how many arguments are going
three arguments.
Mommy, come again. When you call non-static method, current object
reference compulsory should pass. Now, if current object reference is not
passed, how X can be read from even object? How y can be read from even object? So
when you call non-static method implicitly compulsory E1 object E2
object nothing but current object has to be passed. So 2 a non-static method
minimum how many arguments are passed one. What is that one current object
plus number of arguments you are writing in the parenthesis. So tell me in first
line E1 dot set of 10 comma 20 how many arguments are going three. What the
first argument that is substituted where before E sorry before X uh second second
argument is what 10 stored in P parameter P second third argument 20
stored in parameter Q are you speaking within one to two minutes I'm revealing
one horrible topic I started a new topic now I always teach yesterday topic plus
new topic When the news topic started you don't know by the time you realize the new topic explanation are completed
understand what participate okay uh tell me again E1 set of 10a 20 when you write how many
arguments are going into set method first argument
second argument third argument again tell me first argument
no no no first line e1 set of 10. What the first argument?
Even 10 is not first argument. That is the
second argument. What is the first argument? Even okay. E1 is a variable or
value. E1 is a value. Variable. Then how variable can be
passed? What is pass? Even passed. Even object
reference passed. Even object reference is passed. Not even. For your understanding, I am
telling even even. But you should ask me even is a variable. How variable can be passed? Variable value can be passed.
What the even variable value object reference 10 10 may come on go on go on.
E1 dot set of 10, 20. When you see uh you must tell how many arguments are
going three first argument even objects reference that means new
example reference is pass what the first new example reference 10 10 repeat again
when I write even set of 10 20 how many values are going as arguments three what
the first argument even object reference 10 10. Why you are
eating cutting the 10 10? Come again. E1 objects reference 10 10.
Second argument 10. Third argument 20. Wow. Super. Tell me next. E2 dot set of
30, 40 method call. Method is different. Same method. Method is the same logic is
different. Same logical logic is same. uh but the inputs are different. Tell me
what is the compulsory input we must pass to non-static method.
Current object reference here who is the current object. What are the new arguments? 30 40 uh
tell me what is the current object? E2 object reference what is that? 2020 20
totally into set method how many arguments are going? Three. First one what?
Excellent. Third, second argument. Fourth argument. Third argument.
Everyone understand? Uh tell me first time set method executing for which object?
With what values? Uh same logic is executing second time for which object? E2. For what? With
what values? Uh tell me how many times you have written logic. How many times you are reusing
then which approach is best direct variable accessing or via method sir and
this method is called just method or set method because it has logic setting
that's why it is called what set method
online student who said I don't understand babu understand who are you are you there
online student One day you send message first today you send message not understand
now recently yesterday day before you send message I called you also you only
when I am explain the class only ask if you don't understand okay after class if
you say I don't understand I'll get mad
if I found you I will murder you no doubt During the class what you are doing sleeping during the class if you ask I
can tell again the flow after class complete send message I didn't understand anything so two hours what
you did I'll get I'll become mad like anything okay so during the class please ask if
you have doubts I can explain again so that I can find where you missing the point I can connect that point and I
take you to the next level okay now Okay, where 10 is part? Oh, coming that
is the I swear that is the secret of today class. Okay, coming to that point. Uh tell me now say this first method is
called what? Setter method. Second method is called display method or printing method. I
have written this display method for printing whose values. What is X and Y?
X and Y both together is called what? Object. Now tell me display method is meant for printing object values. If you
want to print object values method should be static or non-statica
statica. You want to print object values. Object contains what? Non-static variables. If
you want to work a method for the object method should be non-static. Uh now tell me display method is a
non-private method because it should be accessed from other class. Method should be non-static because it has to work
with non-static variables. Method is what? Void method because it don't need to return value. It should print values
coming. Next method name should be what? Display or print. What is the best idea?
Display not print. If I take print any compile time error no confusion.
Yes sir. Why confusion? Already we have system.out routed print that predefined
print our print finally confused okay that's why I'm choosing what method display you can also use the method name
as a print but don't use as a print it's a confusion inside method logic what you want to print x access directly why
access directly tell me did I bind non-static variable with display method
for oper what operation print operation this is the binding only now
class level index into Y are bind with what display method for printing. Now
the question if I access non-static variable of non-static variables of a
class directly inside the method are those two variables accessed from class or from the object which object
excellent current object from which object current object. What is the current object?
The object using which we call the method. If I write E1 dot current object
is what? E1 E2 dot E2 and tell me E1. Means how many values are going into
display method?
If I call E1 display method, how many values are going into display method? Where is three?
E1 dot display of semicolon. How many values are going? Only one. Who is that?
Huh? Even a even even object reference not even even
object reference is going to display method and substitute before X.
Substitute before Y. Uh this meaning is what? E1.X. This meaning is what? E1
doy. Understood? Can I call same method with the E2 dot also? Uh what the meaning of it? E2 dot
display what the meaning of it execute different method same method
different logic same logic same object or different object uh E2 dot display
means execute same method logic for different object E2 then now tell me E2
object reference is passing into display method now X and Y values are reading
from main method E1 pointing object main method E2 pointing object or main method
E2 pointing object what values are available in E2 object 30 40 30 40 will
be reading and displaying to us
heavy topic comfortable comfortable uh what did you understand here once you define a method as
non-standard I must call that method by using object why this method logic
should execute for that object object to execute for that object. This object
also should be passed into that method.
Uh E1 and 1020 both are going here. E2 30 40
both are going here. First time values are stored in first object E1 point.
Second time values are storing in second object E2. Online students can you able
to visualize are you online?
Uh next E1 display means E1 reference is passing into display method. Then
display method read value from first object and printed on console. Uh E2 dot
display what is coming to display method? E2 and reading the values from
second object and print on console. Everyone understand this flow if you get
then Java is easy. Uh tell me from the day beginning I'm telling Java is simple
fun to learn. Java is very simple and fun to learn. It's really fun to learn.
You will enjoy then when you speak bro in childhood your
parents take you to one play playground. Okay. Now play area
then all childrens are playing you are watching like a super supervisor how they are
playing. Okay. All people are coming onto the slide and sliding there and enjoying like enjoying you are watching.
Wow. And clapping then finally you'll become what
best fellow in the world. Then your father mother next next day onwards like
to take you to the playground. No waste is it is time or time is waste
because you are not play just clapping by seeing others. Then finally who will be successful
and you are just a watchman. And next suppose in your gated comm suppose you
are living in a gated community you taken your child to playing area all you
know children's evening time playing cricket and your child is just a watching h when four is going clap when
out clap finally become what clapping person
can he play cricket can he enjoy no okay so finally become sportsman No
intelligent man. You know you know sportsman's are intelligent
really sportsman are sportsman can get success in any field that's why
childhood up to fifth class you should more make your child to play games more
from sixth class onwards should make focus more on study up to intermediate
engineering both equally we have to focus again repeating remember for your future
children's really you don't want to be a parent in future uh remember there are three types
of schools are there in our Andra Telangan first one state syllabus schools second
CBSC syllabus schools third international ICS all comes under the
CBSC category only and third category schools are international schools.
International school means uh activities will be more
and study education will be less but that all less also more on activity only
study is also based on activity. Worksheets will be given some play play twice will be given everything will be
education is also playing wise no exams
okay no tension no pressure and next definitely one foreign language will be
there along with English one foreign language also will be there so I am
recommending you guys first five years your kids start from the nursery nursery
to fifth class I want you kids to study in international school.
Find international school teachers should be foreign teachers not Indian
teachers. The school teachers must be foreign
teachers. If you find teachers Indian teachers even the school is international teachers are local that
international school become what? Local school only. No difference
because I experienced for my kid my my child uh PP1 PP2 studied in
international school only that time teachers are foreign teachers then the school
fees are more but teacher kjus principal
okay she wanted to save the money for that again she bring what local teachers
then grade one uh PP1 PP2 the way my son speaking first
class he's a complete speaking thinking everything got spoiled
and I went to the school and asked what is happening is it international schooler local schooler and I asked the
teacher my English is better than that teacher English
understand her when I'm speaking in English he's unable to return speak to me and I surprised Okay. Now the school
then I went to the principal asked sorry sir we will change what change then we
slowly realized that whatever the promise is given by the school not up to the level then we all parents taken our
childrens out and move to the another school that time corona started
and corona means what any school is waste so first class PP1 PP2 my child is a
thinking style, speaking style. He used to correct my grammar. He used to correct my you know pronunciation and
his style wearing clothes and you know the way he is you know taking care of
himself is very stylish. Now he's worse than me.
It's all because of school only. Okay, I'm telling you very important. Finding the school is very very important for
your kids. Maybe the school is far distance. Still you go nearer to the school and you
travel make your child comfortable. You know the only asset we can give to our children is good education.
My my father did it. My father believed farming will not give the good food to
us, good life to us. Then he from the from my brother me both from the first
day he forced us don't go to form go to only school even though there is a huge
work in the form also he will not allow us to go because once you have it way doing farming you will feel hate
education because education is very tough forming is easy okay and later farming will not give you
rich life education will give you rich life because every month salary you will get because my father is facing lot of
difficulties to lead the life. Uh then I realize later because my father given
good education to my brother my brother that his salary shared it to me and I
also studied well and I am making my children my child better than me.
Okay. Up to fifth class I force him to go only sport. If he open the book in
the class in the home also I used to scold him. Why you open the book? uh what do you call a homework is there
finish it fast okay if he's trying to use his brain and do I force him why you are using your brain use Google search
Google copy paste complete go first go down and play play sixth class now from sixth class onwards
now I am not allowing to go to study I mean uh play only education and I place
him the most very very important school from the sixth class onwards Sri Chaitanya Yeah.
And you don't believe me? He fall in love with the school like anything.
Every parent, every child is saying that
Because I am torturing you in Java. Now same level of depth will be study will
be there in Chaitanya Nar. No doubt in that sir for the parents and the child
who are looking for the good education Chaitana is best from sixth class onwards before sixth house is best but
you know that life you will not get the stylish life you cannot get. That's why international
school if you don't find international school from the first day itself joining Chaitananya up to fifth class
Chaitananya will not torture you. They will give you regular school only but I'm telling you the quality of the
education in Chaitanya is far better than CBSC schools. Really I'm telling because I experiencing now and my son
studied in international and also studied in CBSC. Now he's studying in Cheta. He love Cheta school like
anything. When I say everybody saying torture who told wonderful school I love
the school and which is three schools I gave which schools you like first one international school he love when he
suffering from fever also he used to cry to go to the school that much he love the school and CBSC when I joined him he
used to cry to go to school he don't like to go school again same
so that's why as a parent if our mind is good children's mind is also Good. If
you feel this is tough, children learns also will feel tough. That's why I generally I'll say Java even though it is tough. I never say this stuff. I say
it's easy. It's easy. Always you have to start anything with what? Easy.
Uh so from here I'm telling you the flow if you follow it is easy. If you only
seeing and not talking it is difficult. And next if you remember I don't know whether he told in their batch or not
generally in the demo classes when I used to tell daily one hour you have to
spend for walking or for playing the games outdoor
then your body and brain will be active in Amir there are two to three grounds
are there if you find parks small parks are there there also in bal in SRA
srag Not not
here. I mean I exactly I forgot in Asagar
if you go there is one small playground there. There you can play games also you can walk and if you go decide our Narit
placement campus is there. This go straight right side. Okay. If
you go there outside if you go there is a one playground is also there. There also you can play and use the walking also you can do. So daily 1 hour you
have to play outdoor and daily minimum half an hour you play with playing cards
or chess game not for money.
Okay. Not online remy game. Playing cards your friends just for you know uh
whatever enjoyment purpose uh you can play you know playing cards and chess
game will improve your IQ. Okay. Java required IQ more calculations
more calculation cap. This side if I go what happen? This side if I go what happened? If I strike I go what
happened? So different techniques you have to think from the two people point of view. Playing cards and chess you
have to think from two people point of view. Your move you have to think if I move this way then what his move when
his move upon uh then what is the what is his intention of moving the background background move next move.
What is his move? So that much heavily you have to think that is called what? Reasoning.
That is called reasoning. Okay. And of course arithmetic calculations also. So your thinking capacity will be improved
when you take uh written test exam question paper interviewer has written already program because of this chess
mentality. Now you are able to understand that interviewer move what is expecting there what concept is
expecting you can start thinking there. That's why I'm requesting you guys minimum one and a half hour you have to
plan for what do you call games outdoor and indoor games. Okay. Now, and second
half an hour for English and communication. 15 minutes for communication, 15 minutes for typing.
Okay. 2 hours for your brain and body improvement. Then uh 2 hours for core,
Java, HTML to regular practice and of course remaining 8 hours for your
regular classes attending. 8 + 4 hours 12 hours. Same 12 hours. How can I work?
Yeah. Out of 24 hours, 12 hours you have to spend for Java. 12 hours uh 8 hours
for compulsory sleeping. 8 hours if you don't sleep you cannot do
anything. You will be drowsy, dull. Next 4 hours for eating and chatting.
Enough. 12 hours for eating, chatting and
sleeping. 12 hours for playing games and then study. If you plan your 12 hours
like this, I'm telling you within 6 months to one year 100% you will get
job. So recision is going don't care about it. If you think recession recision will
be there you will not get job. If you follow my structure and started searching for the job and parallelly you
should also learn resume preparation. Now there are so many websites for preparing the best regime and upload
and no many people are doing the mistake. They upload the regime in the noy and waiting for the jobs. You will
not get you have to daily update the regime. Sir what should I update? Same
content again you post one space you give space save updated
space remove next day update again space give update what no
what it will search latest updated resumeums what updated it will not check
updated or not updated and last updated space you give update space you remove
update and simple if you keep on update like this it will be good So now how to
update regime in no also you should learn for that also videos are there YouTube videos are there Instagram res
are there go and check. So this three months your target is not spending the time on how to prepare kacabad kachad
real are you following reals shots and videos you have to go through around your
career only resume how to prepare how to improve communication skills how to solve the questions how to think the
entry questions bits okay how to write logical programs how to write projects how to use this topic in the project so
this kind of reals only you have to search entry questions okay you have to search
only within that 2 hours 12 hours only kachabad remaining all time you have to spend for
your java update okay so this is way if you work then definitely you'll get the improvement and definitely get the job
within 6 months to one year 6 months completing the course next 6 month sub
the job and getting the job maximum one year within one year you have to settle with a good job what the package
two lakh three lakhs Five lakhs or 7 lakh sir being a HK product your minimum
package should be five lakhs maximum 7 lakhs okay because you are a fresher
listen number of years into two and a half lakhs is the package
number of years into two and a half lakhs okay if you are a fresher target for five lakhs if you're an experienced
person you are trying with an experience two years you are trying three years you are trying four years you are trying
number Number of years into two and a half lakhs plus two number of years into
two and plus extra two lakhs that is your package. Okay, you are a fresher
two plus two and four and a half lakhs. your two years of experience of developer five five lakhs plus two seven
lakhs you have to try that way you have to try if you if you fix your package and fix the date fix the time then you
will get interest of working learning Java and your subconscious brain is also
started working remember all the brains in the world are connected wiring there
is a wiring background so your subconscious brain if you keep on giving instructions to your subconscious brain
it will bring the uh appropriate person to you and give you job. Believe me,
subconscious mind have that much power. If you fix the time, fix the plan, fix and working for it, definitely you are
going to get lot of benefits. Without the plan, if you are working, you never
get job. With the plan you work, definitely you get the job. Okay? All the people understand the flow. Uh I'm
going to reveal you one small background story. All are ready? Okay. Tell me now. I want to modify data
again. You have to call what? Set. Uh I wanted to display modify data. Then you have to call what? Display method. Okay.
Up to now flow is understand. Uh quickly let us repeat the flow so that I can reveal the new point. Hidden point.
There is one hidden point in this program. And tell me whenever I write example E1 equal new example. What
happened? Even variable memory created. Online students come on reply. Even variable memory created and new example
object circle created inside X Y variable memory 0. Do you have any
values assigned to X and Y? No. So what values are available? 0 0 10 stored in
E1 pointing able to visualize. Second example E2 equal new example means uh
again E2 variable memory created another new object is created reference is 2020
XY 0 0 2020 stored in E2 and point first
two lines you have to visualize like a JVM as a memory diagram then when you call method E1 set of 10A 20 set method
is now called by giving how many values how many values by passing three values
listen now the hidden point I'm revealing E1 1020
these values are coming to set method. E1 what value? 10 10 E2 sorry values 10
comma 20 totally how many values came here? 10
20 uh everyone tell me to receive the arguments to a method. Come on come on
come on to receive the arguments to a method there should be a parameter now.
How many arguments are coming to set method two or three
last 15 minutes I'm telling the same point gaji fellows uh when you call set
me here how many arguments are coming three but how many parameters are there
how first value will be received uh second value received by the
parameter P store what value 10. Second argument received by parameter Q value
20. To receive this 10 10 into this method like P like Q there should be a
one parameter now. The parameter name is this.
What the parameter name? This of 10. Now this is pointing to
it is a it is a normal variable or referenced variable or this contain
reference of the object 10 from the main method even pointing to new example.
Okay now help in the brain. Come on come on focus even variable
pointing to new example. This also pointing to same. Uh everyone tell me
inside main method 10 object reference variable is what? E1. Inside non-static
method that E1 object reference is what? This. Tell me E1 do.x in the main method
E1.X in the set method this both are same. Now
understand repeating again inside non inside main method E1.X X inside set
method. This dotX both are same. Both are referring to the same memory because
E1 reference is 10. This reference is also 10. Last class I told you remember
example E1 equal to new example. Example E2 equal to E1. Then E1 reference is
copied into E2. E1 E2 both are pointing to same object. If I access with E1 dot
or E2 dot both are going to same object. If I modify data with E1.x X the
modification affecting to E2 also because both variables are pointing to same object
uh tell me now I have developed a program such a way I created object in
one method and I'm sharing that object to another method when I share object to
another method that object is received into which variable this variable what is this is a parameter of which method
Non-static method. Repeat it again. What is this? This is a parameter of
one non-static method. Every non-static method. Every non-static method. This is a parameter in a non-static method. It
is used for receiving current object reference and access that object
non-static variables inside this method either for reading or modifying. Big
statement. Repeat once again. What is this? This is a parameter to non-static
method. It is used for receiving current object reference of this method and
pointing to the same object. For what purpose? For accessing non-static
variables available in this object either for reading or modifying its
values. In a shortcut in shortcut can I say this is a reference to the current
object of a non-static method reference means what arrow point this is a
reference to the non-static method of an current object it is used for accessing
non-static variables inside the method up to now understand uh tell me in the previous explanation I told you when I
write E1 dot set inside set method x means e1 dot e1 dox e1 E1 when I call
set method by using E2 then here set method is what E2 dox E2 doy now come on
update your knowledge what the meaning of E1 dot set when you call E1 dot set control is coming to the set method and
here is it XA E1X this
wonderful this dox and it is what this do what is this
10 10 then when you write with E1 dot ah This doy means what? 10 10 dot when when
you write E1 dot understand here PQ you have written what the P
value 10 if you pass 10 second time what the P value 13 when you pass what 30
what value you pass that is the value of that parameter and substituted and executed are you following first time E1
you have used what the value 10 what is that this value 10 X and Y values are
accessed from where 10 object second time what you have used it what is substituted here 10 uh 2020 second time
x values are reading from which object 2020 you catch my point uh so tell me
whenever you define a non-static method inside non-static method I'm accessing
non-static variables directly by their name is it really directly by their name or
reference dot there what is the reference this means Which object?
Current object. Where you can find the current object in the method definition calling? You have to go to method call
and find that method E1 dot current object is E1. This method executed for E1 memory. If I write E2 dot access from
what? E2. Everyone understand? Uh now repeat once again. When I write X uh internally what is there here? This dox
and what is there? Uh now you must answer why. All right. Who is adding this dot this dot?
Developer compiler compiler automatically add. So what is the compiler activity with respect to this?
Point number one. When our compiler has seen method is a non-static method. Non-static method must receive current
object reference. For that as a first parameter after parenthesis before NTP
as a first parameter what is added this uh then comma inpq.
Tell me set method is how many parameters method? Three parameters. This P Q everyone understand. And then
inside method logic what compiler will see? Compiler will add this dot to the
non-static variable. This dox equal to p this doy= to q. Why compiler software
not added this to p. P is not a non-static variable. Yes or
no? Compiler will add this to only non-static variable. So how compiler
know it is a static or non-static parameter? Compiler will do searching. You have written x equal to x means
what? Non access variable accessing. X means what? Variable accessing. It is
searching for variable declaration inside the parameters. In the parameters X variable declaration available? No.
Then go to class. in the class X variable declaration available. Yes. Then it will feel non-static variable
attach what this may next. Now if you take P here compile this is a P creation
accessing equal to P equal to P creation accessing accessing accessing then searching for
what? Creation declaration. Now searching for declaration the parameters found yes found means it is a parameter
non static variable parameter. Parameter means should access from within the same method not from the object. So compiler
will add this data will not add will not add. So compiler will do two activities with respect to this keyword. Number one
add this as a parameter to add this as a first parameter in the non-static
method. Second add this dot to every non-static variable access inside the
method. Everyone understand? All the people come to display method. Display method tell me look at the display
method. Is it a static or non-static? Does it have any parameters?
Don't use your eyes. Use compiler eyes. Come on my dear compiler. Is this me has
any parameter? Uh should not say yes and stop. Compiler interviewer. What is
thinking? We don't know. If he is asked tell me is it a parameterized method or nonparameterized method? Two answers you
have to give. Explicitly nonparameterized method. implicitly
one parameter method which is this Raja and tell me now inside the method S
and X is it X this dotX SO and Y
this super all points understood and now let me rewrite this code whenever you
write the code and give to compiler compiler checking classation
variable declaration nonstatic method
this line and then oh this is accessing
go to class this reference
P variable found P variable Q variable found. So this is the modified code then
control is going to either now this is type
nonamet
okay tell me but your java there only okay by end of the batch I
can speak in fully Hindi you cannot speak completely in English
Java English now let's see how many people can speak Java English tell me when you see a method like this then
immediately your mind should tell oh this is a three arguments method what
the first argument this is a parameter uh
current object reference First argument current object E1 reference current
object E1 reference and two arguments control will go to set method with how
many values? Read 10 10 comma 20
10 stored in the parameter. This uh
P stored in the parameter 20 stored in the parameter.
Then logic execution started. Read P store in X in this object ended.
Story Q copy read Q copy in Y in current object
right uh in this object 0 0 replace with what values 10 20
now control come back when control come back parameters are still there are destroyed destroyed
next can you tell me I'm calling E2 set of 30A 40 uh tell me now how many
arguments are going First argument
current object that word is very important. Come on accepted. Current object reference 20 20
30 40. Uh with these values control is coming into
set method. How many values? 20 30 40. uh where they are stored.
This variable separately created with value 2020 20. P variable created 30. Q
variable created 40. Logic executed. Uh this dox= p now stored in second object.
Zero replace with 30. Uh q= this doy. Same logic stored in second object. Zero
replace with four. Understand? Really? Anyone acting?
Acting or not acting? Really? Wow. Then you are a Java actor.
Online students, everyone become Java actor.
Then explain what happened here. E1. Is there any argument going into this
method? Yes. What is that argument? Current object reference 10 stored in
this parameters. Uh now what this logic this dox reading
from which object 10 why reading from which object 10 what is
the output you will get here 10 20 set method done initialization able to read
from display. If remember last class if you modify non-static variable values
inside one method is that modification affected to another methods depending on
object. If both methods are accessed by using same object set method display
method accessed by using same object E1 E1 then modification are affected
because both objects are sharing sorry both methods are sharing same object and tell me E2 dot display what is the value
you will get E2 set method E2 display method you will get the same value 30 40
now control come to display method this variable again created with what value
2020 X Y values are reading from which object? Second object. Hope you all understand and tell me. Same thing
repeated for E1. Set. Same thing repeated for E1.
All are you comfortable? Uh what is the new topic? We have completed today. Continuation to last class. Last class
we learn problems of accessing directly variables and solution by using methods.
Then today we try to understand how the non-static methods able to access first
object, second object, third object. Is it really substitute E1 E2 dot? No.
Implicitly we have a one parameter called this. Uh
what is the flow of execution? Whenever you call E1 set implicitly E1 reference
is passed and stored in this inside the method non-static variables are accessed by using this dot DC dot comfortable all
people really uh now I'm going to share I'm going to share the complete notes on
this keyword can you people read at home and practice
instead of explaining the complete notes in the classroom I'll share you separately look Here these are the
points you have to learn about this keyword. What is this and what is the use of this? What is current object? How
can we access current object members inside a non-static method or constructor or non-static block? What
are the compiler and JVM activities with respect to this keyword? If we modify current object values by using this
keyword in a non-static method, are those modifications affected to calling method? Prove that this is a reference
type parameter variable of constructor and non-static method. This is a prove that this is a final variable. Prove
that this variable type is current class type. Prove that this variable contains current object reference. Prove that uh
sorry what are the rules on this keyword? Tell me can we use this keyword in a static method? Does static method
contains this? This is meant for receiving current object. Static method meant for running object without object.
Uh then this keyword available in the static method. No. Even though you call static method
by using object, is that object reference passed into static method? No. Okay. Uh can we access it in static
members? No. Can we access it in non-static members? Yes. Can we access it at the class level in invoking
variable or method? Yes. Uh can we print this keyword? Yes. Can we pass it as a argument? Can we return it from a
method? Yes. Because it's a variable. Variable can be passed as argument. Variable can be returned. uh when this
is a parameter name why is it created as a keyword you know right keyword cannot
be a name the keyword cannot be a identifier uh this is a parameter name
when this is a parameter how it can be a keyword or when it when this is a keyword how it can be a parameter name
this is a exemption to given to this keyword this one to use as a parameter
if it is not as a keyword You people will use it as a user defined identifier. Now then there is a
confusion in the program right that this refers to current object. This refers to
your local variable confusion will be there. So this is created as a keyword
to stop a programmer to use it as a userdefined identifier. That is a
statement you should remember all points with the clear diagram. I have explained look at the here non-static variable
bind with the non-static method. Yes. For what purpose? Printing here. What happened? Object created. When I call E1
M1, X value reading from which object. How? Because implicitly this keyword is
there. Current object reference 10 is passed and stored inside this pointing to this. Now SX means XR this. XRA. This
dox reading from current object print. When control come back to the main method, the parameter this is destroyed.
Reference is also gone. Then what is this? This is a keyword. The keyword this is a parameter final
reference variable because it is a final it is declared as a final final reference variable of which type current
class type. It is used for receiving and storing current object reference in a constructor or in a non-static method
for accessing non-static variable from current object either for reading or modifying its value. When we create a
constructor or a non-static method, compiler automatically adds this keyword
as a first parameter with the current class as its type as shown below. Now look at that. This is a constructor.
This is a non-static method. What is the current class example? This is a DWC. DWC means what? Developer written code.
Understand? DWC means what? Developer written code. CGC
Not computer graphics design. Compiler generated code. CGC compiler
generated code. Class example. Class example. It is a constructor. To the constructor, this is added as a
parameter of which type? Current class type. Example as final. If you declare variable as a final, can I assign a new
modifications? No. Then why m1? M1 of final. Example this. So this is the what
is this? Why this? And what compiler do next? When we access a non-static
variable or a non-static method in a non-static block constructor or non-static method, compiler
automatically adds this dot as reference to non-static variable or non-static
method accessing statements. Class example developer written code CGC compiler generated code. I am accessing
X variable in M1 method for printing. Look at the implicitly added word this
then JVM activity. What are the responsibility of JBM? Create this keyword memory by storing current object
reference. Access the variable either for reading or modifying by using current object. Uh that is a point and
memory diagram also I gave you clearly. Go through once. So this is a simple point. So in a project we must develop
constructor and non-static method logic common to all objects and further we must execute this logic specific to one
object. For this purpose inside a constructor or non-static method logic we must access non-static variable and
non-static method directly by their name or by using this keyword. Then further
we must invoke constructor non-static method by using the object for which we wanted to execute this logic as E1. M1
E2 M1 method logic executed with what values E1 M1 method logic second time
executed with what values it. Hope you all understand these are the five points I explained just now. I'll upload these
notes. Please try to practice again. Come back. Uh now up to now any confusions I will
upload all these slides. Hope you will practice at home. Right
now tell me what is the how to check compiler generated code. I'll show you.
Uh now look at here. I created the class here set method and display method all the four methods. What are the advantage
of this code readability, reusability, security, centralized code change? All advantages we'll get. Now I moving to
the further concept please try to work out. Ready here we learn first topic problem in accessing variables directly
code redundancy. Second define the set method display method with the reusable
code. Third point, if I act if I create set display method by accessing non-standic variables directly from
which object these variables are accessed from the current object. What is the current object? How can we access
current object members? By using this keyword. Who will create this keyword? Compiler. Who will attach this keyword?
Compiler. Who will create this keyword memory? JVM. Who will access the variables from this keyword pointing
object? JVM. Now we are entering into fifth point. Ready here.
Everyone look at here. When you create a program,
you created the program. Okay?
Then when you create a class, this class created by one developer and
this class is given to other developer for accessing the methods and variables.
Okay. Again repeating how many classes we develop in the project? Two classes.
First one object class. First one which contain fields and methods. Second class
user class other developer. Generally in the project this object class is
developed by one developer and this user class is developed by other developer.
Okay. Mobile manufactured by one company. Mobile is using by you. Okay.
Now people open your mobile.
Call to me. Call me. You don't know my number.
One second. Don't call. What you did?
You are a mobile developer, mobile user. As a user, what you did to call me?
Open number. How to open number fellow?
What you did? First mobile is in lock mode. No. Now what you
did? Unlock. How did you unlock? by enter the pin number or thumb
or face. Oh, wonder. There are three options are there.
Unlock mobile is a operation. You are define that method of calling
that method. Tell me the logic.
What is the logic to open the uh unlock the mobile logic?
Huh? If I set fingerprint, how it is reading the fingerprint and read unlock that
you are a developer or user. As a user, what is your answer? I don't know. Why you are thinking
how to unlock mobile? When I give pin number or face or thumb printer, how it
is unlocked? I don't know. But you don't know. But you know there is a method called unlock mobile
accepted. Yes. As a user programmer always you will be
informed method logica method prototype.
What you know open mobile open mobile means what? Method signature. Now you
will know method signature means method prototype method declaration method body. You know now don't know now don't
know next after that what you did after unlock I said call to me first stop you
unlock next call dial call button you click now dial
call button click when I click on that button what happen dial pad is open how
how but what you know me call and method declaration only you
know are connecting saying not understanding
it's a waste of the time living here I am not talking Java I'm talking real life in real life what are you doing you
are only knowing what to do access but you don't know how is it
implemented how is it access you don't know and how can you etc. Mindless fellows repeating
once again uh as a user in the real life what do you know what to do access but
you don't know how is it implemented every time you are accessing the
operation but you don't know how that operation is implemented much uh tell me once your dial pad is
clicked the dial pad is open then when you press the number digit buttons the
number is displaying How? I don't know. Then after that uh down the call button
is there. Now mobile button call button is there. Click on call button. When you click on call button now the call button
is connecting to the nearest tower. From the tower satellite next tower, next
tower finally connected to my mobile and getting a sound to you. Tr
how is it all happened? Come on answer. I don't know what you
know. Press the button. Are you following my point? You know only press the button but you don't know
what is happening background. How is it implemented? So now my question apply the same knowledge here. Apply the same
knowledge here. Who are you? Are you user or developer?
You are user not developer.
I developed class example. I develop. Okay. Huh? Class example I developed.
Now you are the user. As a user you comes to know I should call set method
by passing two integers. Okay. Now because by seeing the method name set
you can understand that oho these two parameter values are setting to fields
available in the class X and Y. Okay. Set P is setting to X. Set a Q is a
setting to why guarantee.
Who are you? As a user, can you tell me 10 stored in
P? Yes. 20 stored in Q. This method logic storing P and X
in Y. You know, don't know. Huh?
Uh I know sir I only return then you are a developer. If you say I know sir background logic x
equal to p p value storing in x then you are not a user you are a developer. My dear aparachit
you should have three minds. What is that? Aparachit remo rama. Uh user mind should
be what? Rama mind. Rama he know only I pass it and store
further I don't know uh developer is a
a he knows everything okay background he creates some problems also okay uh so
finally tell me now you should have split-minded personality when you're writing code you know about parameters
you know about logic but as a user programmer you know only about method
name and parameters you don't know what is the logic there inside my dear user
accepted yes if you don't accept this point I cannot explain the next concept next concept is
depending on this mindset only still in confusion
nails are biting confusion
user
What I don't know my English I don't know my
Hindi I don't know you are in Java don't know now there is a problem finally you
should realize one point what is that there is a problem what the problem this is Set method design is right or wrong
design. The set method is a wrong design on your mobile. Okay. On main screen,
home screen there are four buttons down. One first button is what? Call, second
message, next camera and next browser. Some buttons will be there. If all
buttons are blank, empty black color buttons are there.
No proper images are not there. All are just four boxes. Empty boxes are there.
Then tell me first button is call button, message button. Call button.
Okay. What is the answer? I don't know sir. Confusion. Uh so this design is
wrong design. What to do? I must not take I must not take parameter names as
you like. Final conclusion understand.
Okay. Now what to do now? The parameter names whenever you are defining a method
to set the values to the fields then the method parameter name should not be P
and Q method parameter names must be uh what X and Y.
If I take parameter names and field names are X2 X2. There is a confusion.
Bad confusion. No confusion. My name is Ar Krishna. Your name is also Ar Krishna. Any confusion? No confusion.
This is faculty Krishna that is student Krishna. Uh if you take in the same
institute two faculty names are Krishna Krishna. Confusion. Earlier we have two Krishna are there.
One Arrishna teach Java another Krishna teach CRT. Okay. When CRT faculty batch
is announced by Har Krishna then all students are come to the demo class. He feeling that I am the faculty
and then after demo class first demo class completed second demo class half of the students are gone and people are
coming and asking sir we thought of you are the faculty for CRT you are not no
I'm not then I request the management please change the name okay uh now same
problem there Bangladesh there are two wanges are there in arid
Bangladesh Mipati Bangladesh Manasan then people are having confusion Which Bangladesh?
Okay. Faculty faculty same name confusion. Student student same name confusion. Faculty name different. I
mean faculty and student name same. No confusion. Look at here. Here x and y
variables are belongs to what? Class score. So they are called what? Fields. Uh here uh x and y variables are belongs
to whom now? Method. That's why they are called what? Parameters. Is there any confusion to compiler? No. Uh listen
listen listen. Now when I write when I write here sorry when I write here when I write here when I write here when I
write here when I X this is who X
parameter X instance variable X
instance variable XA scope you have to verify
where I have access where I'm accessing X in the class scopa in the method scoper.
Okay, give me a pen.
Why are you searching in your bag?
Why are you searching for pen in your bag? Because you kept in your bag.
Because it is your scope. I ask you you I asked you give me your pen then you
will search for the pen in your scope. Can you search in the puck not scope
not other person's scope? Can you search in other person's scope? No other people understand. Um look at here here I
access X variable where in the method when I access inside the method scope
very important please focus when I access the variable in the method scope
compiler search for that variable where in current scope in the current scope variable declaration found then is it a
instance variable or parameter parameter any confusion to compiler. Compiler has
a algorithm. Whenever you access variable directly by its name, it is searching for that
variable in the same scope. In the same scope is the variable already declared.
It will access from there itself. Oh no sir. Then if I write here x = x,
what is my target? Copy parameter into instance variable. Yes or no? Copy
parameter into instance variable means what you write x= x then compiler has
confusion now come on everyone is compiler has a confusion you are a
confusion master compiler never confused because it has a algorithm what algorithm
search for x variable in current method found parameter this x also found as
what parameter then what happened reading the value from the parameter and
storing inside parameter only
store your pen in the bag any confusion you take in your pen and
store it in your scope only now I'm asking take the pen from your bag and
give it to that person explicitly I mention now explicitly explicitly when
the parameter ter name and uh look at here when a parameter name and
class level variable names are same then in the logic I have write what x equal
to x is there any confusion to compiler no both x's are considered as what
parameter reading the value from the parameter and stored in the in the
object value zero replace with the tenna not replaced not replace because both variables are refers to what parameter
Understand my point right? uh when the parameter name and the non-static
variable names are same and when we access variable directly by its name no
compile time error no runtime error no confusion simple parameter reading and
copying into parameter 10 replace with 10 in the same parameter understand now
I want to tell to compiler array compiler consider left side variable as
a non-static variable right side variable as A parameter who should avoid this confusion developer. Developer and
tell me left side variable you want to consider as which variable non-static
variable belongs to method object. How are you accessing the object in the set method? This keyword. So you have to
write explicitly what this. So tell me which code is good? Uh PQbased code is
good. XY code is good. XY code is good. Uh observe now uh let me go as a user
programmer. Think and tell me. My dear user, my dear user, my dear user, you
are a user. As a user, what are you doing? You are looking at the method declaration and calling method. When you
look at the method declaration call E1 set of 10, 10 stored in X that means
implicitly X refers to whom now? Field. Uh 20 stored in Y. Y refers to whom now?
Field Y. Are you catch my point? So tell me now what is a good idea taking parameter name different from fields are
same as a field s if I take same as a field any comp confusion to compiler no
any confusion to JVM no uh we have to explicitly write the code this dox= x
this doy= y now we are clearly told to the compiler array consider left side as
non-static variable right side as parameter Uh tell me what is the flow of execution. Now you pass the value 1020
to object. X value is what? 10. Y value is 20. Then 10 is copying into current
object X. Uh copy 20 into current object Y. Is it clear? Uh tell me now onwards
we have to have each way which program different parameter names are same as parameter.
This concept is called variable shadowing.
What we call uh we completed today two concepts. Number one this keyword variable
shadowing and the execution flow of the setter and display method with this keyword. All points understand really
all these three points notes clearly I'll upload to the Google classroom today. Tomorrow will you spend the time
and practice and come? Really practice means only typing and seeing the output.
Type and see output will never make you expert. You have to write the program in the notes and draw memory diagram. Pass
the argument create this keyword reference and point. I already give you the diagrams in the material. Now the
excess program I am going to upload those programs you have to practice with the same flow. Okay. Huh? And if you
have any doubts, you can send me message immediately on WhatsApp. We'll have a discussion. Clear? Thank you. That's all for today class. Tomorrow is holiday.
Next class is on Friday.

