ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
So my dear English masters, can you tell me
what is the correct way of writing this sentence?
Huh? Look at here. What is Okay, tell this one in English.
This name is called setter method. Right. Right. This name is called setter
method. Generalized way you tell me. Set course is a setter method. Set name is a
setter method. Set fee is a setter method. Right? Uh tell the definition a method
who name starts with
next after set what is there field name. Uh
a method whose name starts with set before field name.
My question understood you have to generalize one statement here. I I'm having small confusion in English
preparing statement preparation. A method whose name is started with set starts with sets.
Starts with Okay. A method whose names starts with set. Huh?
Followed by and followed by followed by and there
are not there. Come on sir. Why you following that
wrong English? And it's a time I have to care of that English grammar also.
Which one is right? A method whose name starts with set followed by comma comma
should be there punctuation comma or and what
comma comma comma followed by a field name is called set
matter or a method whose name starts with set and following by a following by a
followed by a followed by Okay. So, I'm showing my talent with
English grammar. So, I open my Google Transl.
Okay. If you write like this, Google also not understanding.
We understood but Google not understood
a method whose name starts with set.
Okay. Field name
followed by a field name is called set. Okay. Followed by no
and
start with set end with the field name. So here
a method whose name starts with set and ends with a field name
is called. So which one is good?
Hindi,
Punjabi, Hindi.
Oh,
they're about Hindi people. So
I'm just in a confusion what to write. So actually I want to get a meaning of
this method. So many years I'm telling same a method whose name starts with set
and followed by a field name is called set method. Generally this is a statement I used to tell but today I got
a doubt. Let me check in the Google translator what it is telling in Hindi. In Hindi it is dating different
different meaning so that's why I got it out
director is it right
charg
Okay. Chargbd.
What is a setter method in Java?
Go.
In Java, a set method is a type of method used to set the value of a private variable in a class. It is a
common practice in object or to ensure encapsulation and control access.
But what is the definition? It is a type is selling that just a type of method.
Set method is a type of method used to set the value of private variable in a class.
Amma is it right or wrong? I can ask uh okay
copy this sentence and what should I is it right?
Mhm. So you are fully following chargment.
Okay.
Is almost correct. A method whose name starts with set followed by a field name is called set
method. A method whose name starts with set followed by a field name is name.
I should write in single
same. Yes sir. Okay. Okay.
A mother whose name starts with set. Okay. and followed by a
field name is called set.
Now for example
Now what the use of it? It is
used for setting new value or modifying
existing value of a private
field of a class
in this object. In this object means current object using which this method
is called. For example, set course,
set SNO, set name,
set course, etc.
Yes, I pray right there.
What is getter method and what the use of it? A method whose name starts with
get and followed by a field name is called getter method.
Okay. It is used for getting. Getting means retrieving.
It is used for retrieving the existing value
of a private field of a class in this
object. Okay. For example, get seno, get s name, get name,
get a course, etc. or
determines.
Hey
Okay. So what are the statement we told same
thing coming but we should not call it as a variable we should call it as a field. Chargbd is telling that variable
but should not call as a variable we should call it as a field. Okay done. So now last class we have completed what is
a setter method and what is the use of it. A method whose name starts with set and followed by a field name is called
setter method. It is used for setting new value or modifying existing value of
a private field of a class in this object. For example set name set course
or called what? Set method. Now next set method. Next what is a getter
method? A method whose name starts with get followed by a field name is called getter method. It is used for retrieving
the existing value of a private field of a class in this object. For example, get
SNO, get S name, get course, etc. are called getter method. Right? Next, what the steps to create set method? The name
must starts with Z and followed by the field name with the first letter.
First character is or first letter is capital. uh it must be parameterized method. The parameter type and name
should be same as field type and name. Initializing field. Okay, these all points completed and I gave the project.
Hope you develop in the class only this one and we understood the flow. When you call set method many people are feeling
that set method directly value set in the field in the object. No, it will go to where method in the method according
to logic value will be set. Uh then now when you call get method also same story
value will not be get from the object directly. First control will go to get method current object reference stored
in radius return this seno value coming from the object. So value set to the
object value get from the object. It is all based on the logic we have written inside the set and get method. If you
write wrong logic then the value will set to the object. No. If you have written wrong logic will I get value
from the object? No. Remember that point. Okay. Then I gave one more project to understand get method usage
in calculation and one more method I have given to understand get method usage in validation also. So a getter
method is used for retrieving the value from the getter method used for retrieving the value from the object and
that value I can use either for printing purpose or for validation purpose or for
calculation purpose. It's depending on our project. So totally three projects I gave and yesterday I didn't share the
code today I will share you the code and explanation videos you can watch in tomorrow class I mean uh you can verify
in the today class today after class completed so this is the complete syllabus of setter getter method and now
I want you write this program now right check we are entering in a new chapter
today tomorrow no holiday tomorrow we have class hope you remember class
timing Same time 9:00. Okay.
Write down right on this code. You have to write
Come on. Are you writing code or what? You have write code. Just don't write
question and wait.
Huh? Completed. So tell me what you have written. Develop a program. Program means
class. Develop a class to create a room. Room means
object. Room means object. So we have to create a class with what name? Room with
its dimensions. Dimensions means values. Uh L and B. So tell me L and B are
private variables, right? These are the fields in the class. Classroom.
Huh. So what? Create a uh create a room with its dimensions L and B. Class room
with L and B as a private fields. I have to create a room in the building with
the sum L and B. Create a room in the building meaning what?
Building is another class which contains what? Room means you have to create room object. Room R1 equal to new room with L
and some L and B values. Okay. perform business operations find area and find
parimeter. When I write room equal to new room then room variables
uh are contain default value 0 0. Now if you want to perform area parimeter first
I have to find the I mean first I have to set the value to L and B. Then we have two options number one directly
access variables and set or Y set method you set. Which one you follow? Y set method we have to follow. Set L set B
two methods get L get B totally how many methods you define in this class totally
totally totally totally seven methods
set L get L set B get B find area find
perimeter and display totally six methods you should have and then in the
main method class what I have to do coding changing of same coder create object, display values, set
values, get values, and then perform the business operations.
Let me show you the code.
What? What happened?
Why job?
Now look at here classroom private doublel private doubleb uh public wide
set l generally setter method should be public methods for accessing from enter
the project right public wide set l this l equal to l are you confusing by seeing
this thisl equal to l is it this l l
both are same or different if I write l equal to l past value
stored in parameter da contains value 10. Now L reading the 10 storing where
in the same L already yesterday memory diagram I have shown right 10 replaced
with the same value 10 is the class level L modified or not modified not modified after set L if you go and call
get L you will get value 10 or zero zero you will get because value is not updated now next get L method returns
here this L required or not required not required why not required there is no variable shadowing There is no local
variable with the name L. When you write return written L, compiler software automatically will add this L. So when
compiler will add this when compiler will not add this. Compiler will add this if there is no variable shadowing
means there is no local variable or parameter with the same name of this then compiler will add this L. If there
is a local variable or parameter with the same field name compiler will not add this dot feeling that compiler
compiler feeling that developer wanted to access the parameter. Now I want to tell to compiler no compiler I don't
want to access parameter I want to access the field then you have to explicitly write this dot if it is a
static field you have to access by using class name. Okay. So setter method this dot is compulsory. Get method this dot
not required. Compiler will add this dot. Everyone understood right. The next set B get B. And now param what do you
call? Find area method. Find area means what? A total area equal to what is the
formula? Find area l into b mathematics. What the formula for find perimeter? 2
into L + B. And then display method display B. able to write the same code
or you want to copy you are still at a copy level not able
to write yourself that means you have to correct your mistakes at this stage you must able to write the code should not
copy from me oh I don't know find your array mathematics find area of a rectangle L into B find perimeter of the
rectangle 2 into L + B I told LB LB means what it is a square or rectangle
square means Yes s square means I'll say only yes side uh next circle means
rad I will tell I told lnb means what it is a rectangle that common sense should
be there in your mind next building is the object public static wide main of
string array x room r1 equal to new room system outer print and r1 values r1
display tell me when you see r1 when you see room equal new room still your mind is reading like a Java Java English with
JVM. Now what mean Java English?
Java means room R1 equal to new room. That is Java. Java English means what?
Okay. In a building I have created one one room instance.
Then what you have to feel visualize in the real life. Oh, this is a building. In this building this is a room one.
That is a room two. Understand that visualization you should get. Okay. In the real life building I I have prepared
one room. Okay. JVM Java Java English means you have to
speak in English. In a building object I constructed one room. Okay. And then JVM
circle. Object means what? Circle with two variables L and B with a default
value 0.0 and 0.0. Clear? Yes. That is what three levels you have
to think. Java level program, Java English speaking, JVM memory diagram. Uh
so when you see the statement room R1 equal new room, R1 variable created circle created L variable 0.0 B variable
0.0 and stored in R1 pointing. Uh next R1 values message printed R1. When you
see this message speaking in Java, come on speak in Java.
Java whatever there I am reading that is Java R1 display uh
Java English what the meaning of Java English converted into English speak in English prepare a sentence what oh I am
calling display methods with R1 what is the
meaning of it okay R1 method lo sorry display method logic is executed with
the values available in R1 One what is the JVM? JVM meaning okay English
completed Java English completed JVM. What is the meaning of JVM? JVM means flow of execution. What JVM will do? JVM
passes current object R1 reference as argument
to display method. Uh then now we go to display method. In a display method in
the room class display method receives the current object as a argument and
store it in come on store it in this keyword store it in
this keyword uh pointing to the same R1 object much
where much okay uh R1 display means R1
object reference is passed as a argument to display method this parameter memory
created with reference 1010 pointing to the same R1 object created in main method. Second point inside the method
logic the non-static variable L1 access by using this this L what the meaning of
this 10 10L means R1 value 10 10 what the value 0.0 uh B value also 0.0 Z will
be printed a flow mind that flow will come only when you work in the room.
Okay, in the class I can only show you the points in the room you have to work out and come. The flow diagram is very
important. Compile and execute. What values you got? What values you got?
Wonderful. Wonderful. 0.0. Understand the flow. Tell me now you want uh what
the area of this room want to find area. Tell me flow JVM you have to tell three
points number one Java number two Java English number three JVM flow uh first
Java R1 dot find area what the Java English read from the right to left okay
we call find area method with R1 what the meaning to the JVM pass
R1 reference to find area execute its logic with the values available in R1
object uh now go to find area of which class. Room class. Go to room class.
Search for find area. H. Now, do you have any parameter here?
Do you have any parameter here? Yes sir. What the parameter? Uh, now tell me that
this parameter is created with what value? What the current object reference? 10
10. Current object reference 10. You have to visualize this parameter created with reference 10 pointing to the same
room object available in main method. Okay. Super. Uh, next. logic executed with the values available
in R1. Now tell me this is L into B now this L into this B now
what is this L 0.0 what is this dobb
0.0 because in the room object we have 0.0 only what is the final result total
area 0.0 control 1 compile uh control 2 executed
what value coming total area 0.0 Z only typing program seeing output. My
job is over. No, your job is started after seeing output. If you remember hello world program I told you when your
learning started by seeing output after seeing output. After seeing output your journey started your real understanding
will start after seeing output by asking question how this output coming. JVM where it started, where it went, where
it is executed, how many memories created, how the values are passed, where the values are stored. So this entire flow the wiring connection
switch on fan rotating. Wow that is user switch on how fan is rotating
electrician. Who you want to be become? Electricianh
in the company you only has to create the connections. So you have to learn everything by your own. No one will help
you. An tell me I want to set the value. How can I set value? By calling set method. Now tell me uh now come on
English R1 settle of 700 uh sorry Java uh in English we call
okay I am setting 700 to PDL available in R1
we are setting 700 to the field to the
field L in R1 object dot means in R1 object Come again read in Java English.
We are setting 700 in the field L in the R1 object automatically set up logic
executed and set up. Then who coming into picture? JVM. Come
on my dear JVM. You are the JVM. Tell me. Uh this JVM invoke settle method by
passing how many values? First value.
First value is not this. This is a parameter. Uh first value current object
reference. Second value with those two values control will go into settle
method available in room class. In room class settle method available. What the
first parameter? Second parameter. Uh in first parameter what is stored? 10 10. Uh second
parameter L what is stored? 700. Now the logic execution started. What is this L
value? 700. Read from the parameter 700 and stored in
L. What is this L? Current object L in 10 object L 700 stored 0.0 replaced with
700. Understood? Method execution completed. Control return to main method. Calling method
main method. Uh now next line tell me in Java R1 dot set B of 100. Tell me in Java
English setting setting 100 to the field B
available in R1 object. Tell me Java JVM JVM JVM invoke set B method by passing
current object reference and 100 as arguments to room class. Set B method.
Uh room class set B method receive first argument 10 10 stored in parameter this.
Uh next argument second argument 100 store it in parameter B then read B
value 100 store it in the B variable available in this object 10 method
execution completed control come back here understood then now I am displaying
uh display method again called by using R1 object display method logic executed
with R1 object R1 means this dot this L what the value 700 this dob what the
value 100 control 1 compile control 2 executed output coming 700 100 so much
tell me here setter methods and display method you called by using same object
that means if you modify the value in the R1 object in set method are those modifications available to display
method yes if I call setter methods by using R1 display method by using R2 are
the modifications available to display method No. Next I want to find the area.
Then what you call R1 dot find area. Find area method is called by using the same object again. Second time when I
call values are 0 0 now 700 100 700 100 and then what value coming here? 700
into 100 uh totally 7,000. Total area is 7,000 square ft. Control one control
70,000. Ah okay. 70,000 square ft. Okay everyone understand
so tell me did you learn any new point in this program only business terminology we have used uh what we
discussed from the first day I want to create real world object in the programming world which object room then
create a class with the name room second point uh I want I will represent real world object in the programming world by
its values to store values I should define the fields in the How many values I want to store? Two values length and
breadth. Two fields I created. Third chapter. What the third chapter? To perform operations on that object, I
should define methods. What operations I want to perform? Find area, find perimeter. I define two methods.
Fourth chapter. For initializing the fields and perform operations on the
fields for printing up for printing the field values I have two approaches via
by accessing fields directly and via methods. If I access fields directly several problems are there. We have to
provide access only via methods. Tell me in my room I have two doors are there.
Admin wanted to check the ID card. Then two rooms are open and checking ID card. Will students come from this room? No.
Students will come from other room escaping from the admin. So if you want stop students come from other room. Want
to allow students only come from this room. What I have to do? Close that room. Close that door and allow only
from this door. Uh that means I have two doors are there to the building programmer. Access the variable directly
via setra method. You want to allow only via set method. That means I have to close the door accessing variable
directly. How can I close the door? Uh declare variables as private. When you
declare variables as a private, other programmer has a chance to access directly variable. No, he can access
only via methods
and shanker as of now. Okay. Now in package chapter you will
see the difference. as of now with public without public no difference okay when you use the packages chapter then
difference will be there in packages chapter I'll explain uh now finally all now fourth chapter we implemented what
is that allow other programmer access your fields only via setter getter
methods don't allow directly then we declare it as a field and accessing provide setting up set operations via
setter method getting operations via get method business operations via business method and display operation via
display. So this is the full-fledged program we have developed.
Okay, full-fledged program we have developed. So finally, if you want to develop a project, what I have to do?
Step number one, create a class with the object type
people are sleeping or what? How many times I should tell same point fellows?
Public is meant for accessing these methods from other packages
already explained private public difference. Private means within the same class. Public means other classes
available in different package. As of now public is there not there doesn't matter because we are not using the
packages. Online students sleeping people did you listen?
There is no difference between public writing. No public writing as of now. When the public difference will be
coming to picture only when we use packages as of now package is not there. There is no difference. But what is the
standards? Use public. It's a good practice. Uh now tell me what is the steps we have to follow to create real
world object in the programming world. Step number one create a class with object type name. Second, declare the
number of fields as private to stop accessing them directly by their name.
Third, define required number of setter and getter methods. Fourth, define uh
business logic methods. And fifth, define display method for printing. So this is
the standard you have to follow to create a class. Once the class with the fields and setter business logic methods
available, then go to user class. In user class what you have to do? Create one instance from this class or one
object from this class. Uh set the values by using setter method. Get the values by using getter method. Display
values by using display method and perform business operations by calling business logic methods. In this program
I didn't call getter method because I don't want to do any calculations or validation. I want to just print for
printing purpose. already we have display method and I didn't call get I didn't call find parimeter method I
because I don't want to find parimeter I want to find only area so whatever you have learn up to now everything I have
updated is it clear now now onwards your mind should feel okay here I explain you
totally four objects creation by following the procedure first student object second uh employee object third
bank account object four room object Four object I have explained one object
can you develop by your own look around you you'll find the object take pan object take chair object take book
object take a pen object there are so many objects are there you find yourself some object create at
least one object by following complete structure type of the object fields
setter method getter method business logic method and what do you call display method and then define the user
class where this object will be used you define the other object create one instance enough and set the value
display value get the value and perform the business operation at least one or two examples if you write by your own
then you'll feel comfortable with what with what Java uh listen carefully from today onwards until you retired from the
software industry every day you are writing this program
every day you will write the code like this only there is no difference what is changing from one project to another
project procedure changing the Name of the class fields and methods changing are
name of the class name of the fields name of the methods changing and inside business logic methods the conditions
and loops are changing that's all remaining everything is what same that's why while our course is going if you
work hard along with me by creating new examples by your own uh tell me when you
go to company in company you are developing first project or second project
in company the project is very first project no already you fully habituated
working with the project in the class then in the company you will feel hey already I know okay team if you got job
as a fresher team lead feeling that you don't know anything he will definitely give an assignment to develop on end to
end project from front end screens to backend database end to end one project
to develop an assignment will give how many days will take to complete that project.
Tumari fellow is not a business example just a simple one crude operation based
one student student operation student crude operation one project you develop he will ask how much time you will take
maximum two days maximum two days he will take not more than that but team lead expecting how
many days he will take one week one week he may expecting and he will give one
week time uh if you come if you Daily practicing with your own new examples
definitely in one day you'll complete by end of the day you'll finish it because you know Eclipse of course you don't
know by end of the course you'll come to know eclipse the setter method getter method business logic methods all taka
you can generate by eclipse by clicking on the buttons by end of the day you finish the project then team lead will
get surprised and he will ask hey you only developed a chart GPTR
Uh then you will feel insulted. You must feel get insulted. How doubt? How dare
you doubt me? Come and sit next to me. I'll write the code again in front of you.
Understand? You must ask the team lead if you go somewhere I'll murder you. Sit here. I will write the code in front of
you completely. So why I am not encouraging you use chart GPT? Okay, chart GPT is very
important. that knowledge also you must have. Chart GPD will not write the code for you. Chart GPD will decrease the
code. I mean your efforts will be decreased. I want a student class. Go and write develop a student class with
the field setter getter me and it will generate and give you why I need charge GBD when I know everything my Eclipse
will do behalf of the chart GBD. Right? When you don't know some business logic to write you don't know how to find the
given number palendrome or not. You don't know how to find given number Armstrong number or not. that time you can take the help of the charg copy the
code paste in your business logic method. So if you practice along with me when
you attend the interviewer definitely end of the end of the interview ask one question are you a
fresher experienced really tell me next when you start working in the company
when team lead giving the assignment within fraction of hours you can complete the task and submit he will
surprise and are really youer yes and the way you write the code the way
you choose the names of the variables methods will be exactly like a experienced developer. So that's why requesting you
start to work on your own new examples. Understand the concept with my examples.
Don't repeat the same example. Ask yourself let me look around in around
me. What are the objects are there? Fan is there, light is there, you know speaker is there, table is there,
computer is there. You find one object by your own and try to write the code with your own names and share that code
to me. I will find is there any mistakes are there and I'll suggest you and next I found one common mistake all the
students your batch is doing method name underscores they are taking
for example find total result finders total result underscore they are writing
babu underscore is not allowed like in the Oracle database column names
Oracle database column names is recommended to write with underscore but in Java underscore should not write
underscore should be used only in final variable name creation in a class name, variable name, method name should not
write underscore should write with a capital case. First words first letter is small after that every word first
letter is capital letter no space in the middle no underscore in the middle have correct that mistake. Okay, hope you all
understand the story. With this we completed setter method, getter method all the points. Can you please read
these points once? What is a setter and getter method? A method whose name starts with a set
followed by field name first letter capital is called setter method. A method whose name starts with a get
followed by field name first letter capital is called getter method. Why setter method?
Why get method? Setter method is used for setting the new value or modifying existing value in the private field of a
class. Getter method is used for retrieving the value available in the field from this object. What type of
method setter and getter are they static or non-static depending on the field type? If the field is static, method
should be static. If the field is non-static, get methods set method should be non-static. What are the steps
we must follow to develop setter and get method you know is setter method must be vid not required. Is getter method must
be nonp parameterized not required. Sample program on projects we completed. What is the execution flow of setter and
getter method? When we call setter method, current object reference and argument will go into setter method
based on the logic value set to the field. Getter method. When you call getter method, current object reference
will go into getter method. Based on the logic we return, value will be returned from the field. When we call setter
method, is value directly stored in the object? No. When you call getter method, is value directly read from the object?
No. Is a setter in a setter develop setter method development? If you develop variable
shadowing and inside the logic in assignment if you don't use a class name or this keyword will value stored in
this object field no value is read from the parameter stored in the parameter. What are the different usages of getter
method? Getter method can be used for three purposes. Read value print read value use in the calculation. Read value
use in the validation. What are the points we must consider in getter method name very important. If the field type
is boolean, getter method name should starts with is not with get.
Remember again repeating if the get if the field type is boolean getter method
name must starts with what name is. Uh tell me last class I gave you bank
account object active active variable name is what? Boolean. I should take the setter method name as set but get method
name is what is question format must be there why because we are using getter method in the validation if account one
get active meaningful account one is active meaningful is act if account one
is active s active else not active so now for meaningful message coding
standard get method must starts with what is so these are the points and then following I I requested to develop an
assignment. Choose your own object. Define static and non-static fields with
a primitive reference and boolean type. Primitive variables. I want referenced
variables. Yesterday I shown you address variable as a reference variable. Okay. And boolean type variable both static
and non-static provide access via setter getter and display methods. So if you
design one example and you'll understand fully okay I know you cannot write. I will also share the assignment code also
and then we develop this project with the business logic methods also. Okay. Shall I ask a question now?
Are you Lord Hanuma?
Yes sir. Look at this object in a building. You
are constructing a room with dimensions 0 0 and later you are
stretching that room 700 and 100 possible
once you construct a room you can decrease the size but once you construct a room how can I increase the size you
can decrease means you can break and you can decrease construct means how can you take other person house into your
Now the point is try to understand in the real world there are some objects
must be initialized at the time of object creation.
Listen I created object after object creation completed in the next lines of
the code I am initializing the object. Sometimes in the project there are some
objects are there. They must be initialized at the time of object creation itself. For example, a student
taking admission. At the time of admission taking student number, student name and course must be
decided at the time of admission or after taking admission. At the time of admission I have to take
the decision. After admission taken if I decided uh first you pay the fees and later you take the course and is it a
good idea? No. First you have to decide the branch CSN EC civil mechanical which
branch you want first you decide the branch then take the admission. Are you following? Uh you take bank account. You
want to open the account then tell me first I should decide account number, account holder name, balance then only I
should decide what opening the account without deciding how can I open? not possible. So there are some objects in
the real life. I must initialize those objects at the time of object creation.
Uh let me take Facebook. Facebook or Instagram or whatever Facebook is best example. Have you have the account in
the Facebook? No. No. Today you create. Let me create
Facebook
uh look at the Facebook. Facebook is such a nice
uh Facebook is a nice website. Look at here. It is asking enter phone and email
or phone number or password login. I I don't have account first. I should create account now. Create account and
creating object in Java. Facebook is the object. Okay. Customer
is the another object. One customer account I have to create in the Facebook. Uh customer customer open
bracket closed bracket. Customer has a fields and setter method getter method.
Now Facebook is the main method class executable class. Now I want to create one account means class Facebook open
bracket main method open bracket create an account. Create an account means what? Customer C1 equal to new customer.
Correct only. Now uh now look at here
how many values he is asking us to enter?
First name, first name, first name field,
string, first name, string, last name, long mobile number, uh, next,
string, password. Okay. Uh, next, uh, date, date of birth, nothing but date of
birth, do date. There is a class called date. To represent the date, we have a
class called date. Date do date data birth. and then gender women, male or custom whatever and then click on sign
up. That means the moment when I click on sign up customer account customer C1
equal new customer object is created with values or without values.
How many values? 1 2 3 4 5 6. Six fields
are initialized inside Facebook. Once account is opened uh every day he will
torture you. He will send a message notification. Hi, you forgot to set your
uh school information. You forgot to set your college information. You forgot to
set your uh uh what do you call working status. Uh he will keep on asking you
set this value, set second value, set third value. That means inside a class
there are some fields which must be initialized at the time of object creation and there are some other fields
can be initialized after object creation. Everyone understand? Next tell me once I created the field once I
create my account there may be a chance that I need to change my name. Huh? Uh I
have to set the fields at the time of object creation and those mandatory initialized fields values. After object
creation I wanted to modify. Uh then tell me totally what is our requirement we analyzed here. Oh I have a class with
multiple fields. Some of the fields must be initialized at the time of object creation. Some of the fields must be mod
set after object creation. Both mandatory and optional fields must be modified after object creation. That
means inside the class I have missed something. Do you all understand? Now I
have to require some more point there in the class. What is that point? I need one more programming element
for setting the object or initialize the object at the time of object creation.
At the time of object creation, I need to initialize the object. For that I
need one more programming element. Everyone understand? Setter methods are meant for initializing the object after
object creation. But we need one more programming element for initializing the object after object creation. If you
consider our room object, the room object fields length and breadth must be initialized at the time of object
creation. But I I I I need one more programming element for that. Read the points. Now what is the problem with the
setter method? A setter method cannot initialize an object at the time of object creation. It can be initialized
only after object creation. Sometimes we must initialize object at
the time of object creation. For example, room object dimensions must be initialized at the time of object
creation itself. For initializing an object at the time of object creation, we must use
understand. So finally what the new programming element you are learning constructor. So tell me how many
programming element Java support eight first one module
package class variables methods constructor block in our class. We
completed a class programming element meant for representing real world object. Second variable variables are
meant for storing object values and operation values. Method. Method is
meant for implementing operations. And now what is the next programming element? Constructor. Method is meant
for implementing setting operation, getting operation, displaying operation and business operations also. All four
operations I can do by using method. When we have method already, what the purpose of constructor? New programming
element constructor. Method can only set values or initialize object at the time
after object creation. But what is the requirement we have? I want initialize object after object creation. For that
what I required constructor. We must pass the initialization values as
argument to constructor. For this purpose in a room class we must have
parameterized constructor. Are people understand? Uh now go back to the code
once again. Go back to the code once again.
This is the object creation sentence. Object creation statement and tell me
now room R1 is object creation or room new room is object creation.
New room is object creation. Okay. In this line
what are all there? Tell me
in this line what is there? Tell me. New is a keyword.
New is a keyword or operator. Okay. What is this room?
Class name not class. Room is the class name. Class name following by what is
there? Parenthesis semicolon. Uh tell me
a name parenthesis semicolon. Is it a calling or not?
Hello. It is a calling. If I write M1 parenthesis semicolon, what is this? A
calling or method calling?
Okay. Uh whose method calling?
Ymon is a method. Okay. Whose method? Method belongs to class. Now, which
class? Room class.
Room class. Did you mention that room class here? No. Did you mention the name
here? No. Then how compiler consider is a room class? You didn't mention any reference. So it belongs to what current
class control one compiler throw error cannot find a symbol method m1 where in
the class building. That means when you call a method the method definition with
the name M1 must be available now I'm writing here R1 dot when I write R1
dot this method belongs to whom room class in R1 class there should be a
method with the name called what m1 is there not there then compiler throw error cannot find symbol method M1 in
variable R1 of type room Okay.
Now calling uh whose calling it is
room class, can you call the class constructor? Constructor. If the method
name is same as class name. If a method name is same as class name, then we call
it as what? Constructor. And tell me with the name room parenthesis, there should be a
constructor in the class. Go to room class. Have you defined any constructor in the class? Do you have
anything definition with the name room parenthesis? No. Then I must get compile time error. No. But there is no compile
time. What do you understand?
Oh, when I don't define also I am not getting any compile time error. That
means implicitly in this class compiler software adding one constructor with
parameters or without parameters. Tell me when I create a display method without parameters even though R1
reference is going into this method or not. That means that means that means this display method is explicitly no
parameter but implicitly there is a one parameter. Huh? Similarly in this class I have not created any constructor but
implicitly there is a constructor. All people understand implicitly there
is a constructor. Control one compile. I want to see the bite code generated by
compiler. Uh to see the constructor. Okay. Open where this code is available.
Uh open command prompt. Command prompt open.
Uh now clear screen. Clear screen. Uh hide the point. Hide the path. Java C
room Java meant for word compilation. Java room is meant forward execution.
Now there is a command called Java P. What the command name? Java P.
Summer ready. Next time don't miss. Okay.
Let me Why you are that much fast always?
Sorry. Yes. Again. You are very fast.
Did I ask you say sorry? Is that is the answer for my question?
Oh no sir.
Control control control your you know anxiety. Okay. Uh Java P stands for
C stands for what? Compiler. P stands for profiler.
Profiler. Now what is the profile means?
Profile. Profile means what? Information. What is give me your profile means? Give me your information.
Java P space. I want the profile of the classroom.
Okay. Java P is a tool like Java C. Java P. Sorry. Java C Java Java P is also a
tool. It's a binary software, binary binary file, a small software available
in JDK software. It is used for reading the byte code of the class. If you want
to read byte code of the class, I have to use which command? Java P Java Pace
class name. When you type and press enter, look at that. It giving details
in your system. You will get compile timer
in your system. You will get error because
because path setting problem. By default when you install JDK software
by default JDK software path is set only to access Java C and Java.
Okay. Huh? Only for accessing Java C and Java path will be set. Uh if you want to
access other binary files, you have to set the path to full JDK.
How to set path? By using the command set path equal to you want to set the
path to full JDK. Where JDK is available? C drive C col/ JDK. Which
version JDK you want to use? 17 17 set 21
22 22
/ bin where Java C Java Java P are available in JDK folder bin folder bin folder
press enter you have to set the path to C JDK bin uh let me take your system set
path equal to clear screen. Okay. Set path. There is no path variable in your
system. Path variable is not there. Then if you type java p
room, then you will get error like this. Java P is not recognized as an internal
or external command. What to do now? Clear screen. Huh? Set path equal to
P colon/ JDK22 or 21 whichever the version available in
your system up to what you have to set bin. Press enter. Uh now what is the
path? Now this is the path. Now path is available JDK bin. So much tell me now when I type
java p can command prompt software access the java p command from the bin
folder. Now yes, Java P room then it will show the byte code of the room.
Everyone understand? Uh tell me in the room class you
yourself created public classroom. Yes. You created setter method, get method,
setter method, get method, find area, find perimeter, display method. Okay.
Huh? Did you create this fellow in your
source code? Do you have that room parenthesis? No. Then from where you are getting this room parenthesis compiler
generates compiler has generated this. Look at the name of this member is same
as class name. And do you have any return type? No. If you find one member
in your class same its name is same as the class name and it doesn't have
return type then we call it as what constructor. So what is a constructor? A
constructor like method like method. Constructor is also a code block.
Method is a code block. Now uh constructor is also a code block. It is also meant for placing sequence of
statements. sequence of statements as a one group with what name? Any name of
class name? Uh class name and with return type or without return type. You
should not write even return type v also. If I write wide also there is a problem. So what is a constructor
like method? A sequence of statements placed as a one group with class name as
its name without return type is called what? Constructor a constructor is a
kind of method. Can I say that a sequence of statements placed as a one
group with the proper name and return type is a method. So can I say a constructor is a kind of method? Yes.
What is the name of this method? Any name or class name? Class name with return type or without return type. Tell
me it is a method not constructor. Why? because its name is not same as a class
name and it has a return type. So what is it? Method. So what is a constructor? A constructor is nothing but a kind of
method. A kind of method whose name is the same as class name and doesn't have
written type is called constructor. What the use of constructor? Tell me. Constructor is meant for developing
business logic or initialization logic. Uh a constructor is used for
initializing an object which is created by constructor created by new keyword
created by new keyword. In C++ constructor only create object constructor only initialize object. But
in Java constructor will not create object. Constructor only initialize
object. Who will create object? New keyword will create object. Uh remember once again what is a constructor? What
is the use of constructor? A kind of constructor is a kind of method whose name is same as a class
name and doesn't have return type. Constructor is used for initializing the
object that is created by new keyword or new operator. Created by new operator in
Java construct new keyword or new operator is responsible for creating object and constructor is responsible
for initializing the object. Constructor doesn't create object. In Java,
constructor doesn't create object. It only helps new keyword to create object
and initialize object. Do you understand? Then tell me constructor name is really constructor initializer.
Initializer because it is not constructing. It is only initializing.
But it is a traditional name coming from the past generations from objectoriented
in objectoriented programming. This concept is named as a constructor.
That's why Java people are also using it as what? Constructor but actual name is constructor initializer.
Initializer is the correct name. Okay. Uh so tell me what is the job of constructor? Constructing initializing.
Initializer. Okay. Point number one. What is constructor? Understood. Point number
two, why constructor? Understood. Point number three, what is the responsibility of the constructor in Java? Initializing
not a constructing. Three points understood. Fourth point, how to create the constructor? Okay. Compiler
generated constructor. Okay. Sometimes we should also create constructor. How can I create constructor? What the
syntax for creating constructor? What is a constructor? A kind of method. Constructor is a kind
of method. Tell me the full syntax of the method. Syntax of the method. Accessibility
modifier. Execution level modifier. Return type. Method name parameters.
Throw exception list. Open bracket. Closed bracket dash dash logic. What is
this logic? Maybe business logic. Maybe initialization logic. Maybe
getting logic. or maybe displaying logic. So using method we can develop
four logic. Business logic, validations and calculation, generate result, setting logic, store the value in the
object, modify value in the object, getting logic, retrieve the values available in the object and printing
logic. So any of these four logics we can develop by using method. But what logic we develop by using constructor?
Only initialization logic. Tell me what is the syntax for creating constructor?
uh accessibility modifier. Once you define the constructor, you have to access the constructor. Now without
accessing constructor, is it automatically executed? No, we have to access the constructor. Okay. Where you
want to access only within the same class, other classes also other classes also room object constructor I have to
access from the building class for creating object. Now uh so tell me constructor can be private, can be
default, can be protected, can be public. Any of the four accessibility modifiers are allowed. Next, next syntax
is what? Execution level modifiers. Tell me execution level modifiers are meant for controlling the execution of the
method. Can you control the constructor execution? Constructor must execute for
initializing the object. That means constructor must be called by using object only. No. Can you control its
execution? No. It must be executed during the object creation by using the
object. So not under your control. That means can you create can you provide the
execution level modifiers to the constructor? No. Okay. All eight execution level modifiers are not
allowed. So repeat once again. Come on try to talk otherwise you will sleep. Last five minutes you'll fell down on
the steps. Last five minutes. Woke up. Uh tell me what is the constructor syntax
visualize. First accessibility modifier. Next. Executionable modifiers allowed or
not allowed? Not allowed. Next. Return type allowed? No, not allowed. If
return type is there, it is not considered as constructor. Next, method name. Method name place what I should
write? Class name. Uh, next parameters allowed or not allowed. Must be allowed.
If not allowed, how can you initialize the object? Parameters are allowed. If the given parameter arguments are wrong,
should I initialize? terminate the initialization. Uh further should throw exception throws exception open bracket
close bracket inside logic dash logic. What that logic business logic
initialization logic uh as part of initialization logic can I do some validation? Yes. Can I do some
calculation? Yes. Generate the result? Yes. Can I return? No. That result what
I have to do only store in the object initialization logic. Okay. Uh now let
me show you all the points in the notes part
constructor and types of constructors wherever you go types will come. Uh what
is a constructor and why constructor? A constructor is a kind of method whose name is same as a class name and doesn't
have return type. In Java constructor is used for initializing an object which is
created by new keyword. In Java object is created by new keyword and it is initialized by constructor. Constructor
doesn't create object. Constructor job is only initializing. So we can say constructor is a initializer not a
constructor. Wow. Uh is it mandatory to define constructor in a class? No. Compiler automatically generate
constructor behalf of you. uh it is not mandatory to define constructor in every class by developer. Okay, these points
I'll take you later.
unnecessary I join you join in my class now if I know these many points you will
teach I would not join in your class now
Don't worry all these points are very easy. Uh what is a constructor? A constructor is a kind of method whose
name is same as okay. Why constructor? In Java a constructor is used for
initializing an object that is created by new operator. Okay. In Java, object
is created by using object is created by new keyword and it is initialized by
constructor. The constructor
doesn't create
an object. It just
initializes the object that is created by
new operator. So
in Java a constructor is not a
constructor, it is an
it is a initializer. Okay. Syntax to create a constructor. Uh
what is the method syntax?
If you remember method syntax uh now business logic validation
calculation generate result uh also can be this logic can be
logic. Uh second what is the logic? setting logic.
Next one is getting logic. Next one is
display energy. Any of the four. Uh next or or not not all or
I got last. Okay. Next. Now constructor syntax. Constructor is a kind of method.
So both syntaxes will be similar.
Constructor syntax. Accessibility modifier allowed. Class name method name place class name parameters allowed
throws exception list is allowed and what initialization logic. What the initialization logic it has validations
calculation generate result and finally store in see what means current object
non-static variables or non-static fields. Okay. Now here accessibility
modifier parameters list throws exception list and even logic is
optional. we can create empty constructor. Class name, parentheses and body are mandated.
Okay. So this is the story about constructor. Now we should learn how to write a program on constructor. How to
execute constructor. These points we have to learn we will see in tomorrow class. Okay. Tomorrow class will be at
9:00 a.m. How long? 9 to 11 2 hours or can you spend more
time? We'll see tomorrow. Yes. Okay. Now, if you can spend more time,
we will spend more time. If you cannot, I will stop. But 9 to 11 is paka. 9 to
11 will be there. After 11 with taking 15 minutes chai break, if you want me to continue class, I'll continue. Thank
you. That's all for today class. I'll upload all these points notes.
Please practice at home and come.

