ript


right? Good morning everyone. Australians, can you hear me?
Okay, last class we are trying to understand constructor topic, right? So we learn what is a constructor, we learn
why constructor, we learn syntax for creating constructor. So we have to compare method uh syntax with what
constructor syntax. Uh then we understood constructor creation syntax.
In the which part is mandatory which part is option also we have seen and then we try to understand one sample
program. Okay. Can you please write down this program sample program in creating
tell me when should we create constructor in the class?
When must we create constructor in a class? If you have
if you need to initialize
an object at the time of
creation or in two situations.
If we need to execute
some logic at the time of object creation.
Okay, two situations. Okay, if you need to execute some logic
at the time of object creation, then we should define construct
Okay. We must define constructor in the below two situations. Okay. Uh now observe
if we need to initialize object
without taking values values as
uh without taking values from
other programmer.
We must define constructor with parameters or without
parameters without
or we must define no param construct.
Next, if you need to initialize an object
or if you initialize this object, okay,
by taking
by taking values from other programmer, we must define param constructor.
The number of parameters and type of parameters
are depending on
the fields and their types. depending on the number of fields and
there and those types.
Okay. Next coding standard.
For the coding standard, the parameter names
must be same as
field names for giving
information to the constructor caller.
which parameter is referring
to which field. Then
inside constructor logic we must
use this reference to access
instance variables. Okay, we must access to access fields by
differentiating from
parameters. Okay, coding standard the parameter
names must be same as field names for giving information to the constructor
caller which parameter is referring to which field. Then inside constructor logic we must use this reference to
access fields by differentiating from parameters. Hope you remember this point in a set method. Right. Next
uh tell me types of constructors. How many constru how many types of
constructors we have? Java supports
the types of constructors. Number one,
default constructor.
No param constructor.
Parameter is a constructor param constructor. Okay. Right. Uh when to use which constructor?
What is default constructor? Default constructor is the constructor by default provided by compiler. Uh what is
no param constructor? No param constructor is the constructor defined by developer defined by developer. And
param constructor is a constructor defined by developer. When we want to initialize object at the time of object
creation without in without taking inputs from the user we should use no param constructor by taking the inputs
from the user then we should define what param constructor okay let us try to understand
small program sample programs okay and now sample program in creating no param and
param constructors so default constructor no need to consider because already we know it and now write on this
code we'll write two programs of both combining in one program.
No param param as two programs are one program one program. Can you understand?
Yes sir. Right.
Whose
book is this? This bad book.
I said write your name and number right. First day demo class not written any
number name and a complete book is you know all blanks
half page written half page not written. Huh. And this is new book.
This is empty papers book forgotten book.
Huh?
Constructor Java P file name yesterday. Constructor Java P file name written and
left. I think same writing.
How can you prove?
How can I
hide
on constructor?
Yes,
write your name on book once you open the first page. That's why B Tech students are brainless students,
brain dead students. LKG student you take once they buy book immediately they will write their name. Right?
Uh completed up to here. Close class. Uh can you create a test class for
executing these two constructors? Can you create a test class to execute
these two constructors? Constructors are executed for initializing object. Object is initialized by creating
by created by using new keyword. Now come on try.
Answer is there.
Can you draw object memory diagram? I want you write flow of execution.
I'm removing all comments not required.
How many Java files? Two Java files.
This is example on Java and this is test on Java.
Uh tell me the flow of execution. Which class you are running first? Test class you compile. Test the class
you will execute.
Uh write along with me. So first test class step number one. Uh step
number two main method. Write along with me please.
Don't watch watching is completed. Uh next step is what?
Example E1. E1 variable memory created.
I'm writing diagram like this. E1 variable left side I'm right. Uh now next what is executed?
New example complete line executed only new executed whole new new what new will do it create
instance 10 listen carefully new keyword should create instance of
which class example class keyword will go to
example class example class is loaded do you have any static variables
non uh uh then Next, it is going to allocate memory for non-static
variables. X variable who will initialize non-static variables
with the default value. Who will initialize
object non-static variables with the default value? Constructor.
Constructor meant for initializing object with given values not with the
default values. Who will initialize? Y JVM new operator
object is created by whom? New. Then the new operator initializes. There is a
confusion in the market. Default constructor is used for initializing object with the default values. Right
answer or wrong answer? Wrong answer. Default constructor will leave the
object with the default values. But who will initialize object with the default values? New keyword. Either you create
object with a default constructor or no param constructor or param constructor any of the three constructors you write
by default by default object is initialized with the default values who
will do that new keyword later in the constructor if you write initialization logic default values are changed with
the given values in the default constructor we don't have any internal values that's why they are leaving with
what default values understand my point then Right? Default constructor is called default constructor because it
generated by compiler. It should have one name. That's why they call it as what? Default. Okay. So tell me who
initialize this object with the default values. New keyword. Uh next is this X
and Y have any values here? No. Then leaving that object with the default values. Okay. Now next keyword is
calling home constructor. There are two arrow marks are coming
here. First arrow mark is for knowing the class. Second arrow mark is for
calling constructor. Which constructor? No param constructor. Example class no
param constructor. Understand there are two arrow marks are coming. First one to
know the class name to which object should create. Second one to call the constructor. Now control will go to
which constructor? No param constructor. Everyone tell me control comes to the no param constructor with any value or no
value. With any argument or no argument. Huh? Argument or no argument? No
argument. Argument. Argument or no argument?
A constructor is meant for initializing object. Which object?
Current object. Then the current object information should pass to the constructor. Now that means control will
come to the constructor with value. New keyword call the constructor by
passing current object reference 10. By passing current object reference 10
bypassing current object reference 10. Where that reference is stored?
Excellent. In this keyword, in this keyword tent is stored. Now
pointing to it. Now tell me who will hold the object first? The assigned
reference variable E1 or constructor reference variable. This
who is holding the object first? Even this this will hold the object first.
Okay. Then now the logic is executed. Now the logic is executed. X = 10. Uh
tell me is it X= 10 or this dot X= 10? Why compiler add this here?
Why compiler add this here? Because there is no variable shadowing. Because there is no variable shadowing. Compiler
will write this dot this dot and logic executed. Zero replace with 10 and then
zero replace with 20. Now tent stored in. Oh sorry sorry. Uh
now constructor execution completed. When constructor execution completed control come back to the calling place.
Now control come back to calling place. Uh when control come back to calling
place the parameter this is still available or destroyed. Parameter destroyed reference to the object is
also destroyed. Uh now once the control come back to the main method. Now the
new keyword return the reference to E1 10 will come and store it in E1 pointing
to. So now I'm asking three questions try to answer who creates object of the
class new keyword or constructor who will initialize object with the default values
already. Who will initialize object with the default values?
Not constructor. New keyword. Who will initialize object with given values?
Constructor. Understand three questions. Fourth question. Who will return object
reference to store in the reference variable E1? Constructor this keyword.
This is know answer. Millennium answer. What?
This keyword is local to constructor. How this value will come into the even by already arrow mark return answers are
there on the board. Why you are using your brain? How many days you will continue using your brain? Why? Who will
return the who will return the object reference store in the reference variable new? What is the job of
constructor? only initializing object with given values.
New keyword is meant sorry constructor is meant for only initializing object
with given values. That's it. It will not do any other works. It will do only
one work. What is that? Initialize the object with given values except that it do nothing. Understand? Uh who will
create object of a class? Object means non-static variables memory. Who will
create object and allocate memory to non-static variables? New keyword. Who will initialize the object
with the default values? New keyword with the given values constructor. Who
will call constructor? New keyword. By passing current object reference. Next, who will return the
object reference? New keyword or constructor? New keyword. What is the implicit return type of the constructor?
Void void member can return anything. No. All people understand this constructor and object creation. Uh tell
me is there any difference in setter method execution and constructor execution? No. Setter method is executed
after object created. Constructor executed during object.
Okay. The flow passing argument storing in this executing logic everything is
same. Set method logic constructor logic completely same. Only difference is
constructor executed at the time of object creation with a new keyword. Setter method is executed after object
creation with object reference E1 dot except that every point is same. I explain one constructor. Can you draw
memory for second constructor? Try try yourself. Try the memory diagram everything by
your own.
Second object you have to try. Everyone trying first step variable creation E2.
Uh second step new keyword we'll create
new instance with a new reference 2020 x variable y
variable memory with a default value 0 0
uh 0 0 okay then new keyword call constructor bypassing
bypassing bypass passing current object reference. By passing
current object reference and given arguments given arguments then control will go to
parameterized constructor with how many arguments? Three arguments. What are they? Current
object reference 2020 15 16. Where 2020 stored
in the parameter this 2020 stored pointing to it.
Then parameter x created with value 15. The parameter y created with value 60.
In every batch students are feeling listen students are feeling I pass value
those values will come really because I am passing arguments 151 16 if
I read that object value next guarantee 15 16 will come no because I am passing
I don't get values ada because I am passing values they are stored only in
parameter from the parameter you want to get the values into object you have to store them inside The object now further
required logic you have to write in the constructor. Now tell me your hand taking the food into mouth. Is there any
guarantee it will go into the stomach? What you have to do? You have to push it right. Uh then here the given arguments
15 16 coming storing in parameter that's it further values you want to bring into
this object the required logic must be there in the constructor. Here I have written x= 10 y= 20. Compiler sees that
X as a non-static variable then control go to current object. Y as a non-static
variable value will go into current object. Tell me in the second constructor the values are available in
the parameter here XY in the logic X Y X semicolon Y semicolon XY compiler
verifying where in current constructor in the current constructor X is available reading from here and copy
into X available wherein this then from here control go to current object in the
current object zero replaced with 15 uh y value reading and storing where in
the y variable in current object y variable in current object uh in the
current object zero replace with 16 understand suppose if I don't write this
here then I have written x = x y= y I didn't write
this then what happened our values are stored in the object values are going into object it because
I am passing as the argument because written logic are clear if the logic is
wrong written then values are copied and not copied that point should come to your brain because I am passing values
will not come back because you join the course you will not get job because I'm teaching nicely you
will not get the job you should also practice at home you should understand the flow you should remember the flow
you should apply that flow in the exam hall then you'll get the job yesterday Almost thousand people has written a
exam placement exam. Okay. Uh are you getting all thousand people get the
placements? No. 1% also difficult. Why? Because we
attend the course and we will apply for the exam. But in exam we will use our brain. We don't use
the brain with the given algorithms. We only use our brain. Look at the code. Whatever you feel you will tell answer.
That is definitely your answer also will be there in the options. Wrong flow option also will be there. Correct flow
option also will be there. If you think like a compiler and JVM you will get correct answer. If you think like a
brainless person brainless person which brainless not your original brain Java brainless
then you will get what wrong answer here. If I remove this keyword if I remove this keyword are values are copy
into non-static variables. No values are reading from
parameter and storing in storing in parameter only. 15 replace with 15. 16
replace with 16. Do you remember we discussed this point?
Okay. So be care
values will be copy into object. Values are copy into object.
Then after constructor execution completed what happened? The parameter
this and parameters are destroyed. reference to the object is gone.
Uh control is returned to calling place.
Then the new keyword return the reference and store it in E2 variable. E2 variable contains 2020 pointing
you won't get the flow automatically. Okay. When you are interested to learn
and interested to after going to home if you work then only you will remember all these points
and now we finished understanding how the no param constructor is executed.
How parameterized constructor is executed comfortable? Then tell me next when you call E1.is what values are
coming from E1. 10 20 when you call E2. What values are
coming? 15 16. So tell me immediately after object creation when I access am I
getting the required values or not? That means am I able to initialize the object at the time of object creation?
Uh how display method can read values available in the first object? How display method second time can read
values available in the second object? Explain the flow with the diagram.
uh when you write E1. Control come to display method with
current object reference 10 stored in
this keyword. Uh X means 1010.X Y means 10 10y. Uh
next when you call E2 display control is coming to display method second time with what reference 2020. This keyword
again created with what value? 2020 2020.x X 2020 20 15 16 you will get
okay now hope you all understand this is the flow of execution of
constructors and non-static method with this keyword flow so if you have any confusion in this program you can ask
I'll explain if you want again don't ask me explain again I will not explain
you tell me your doubt I will explain
U huh. Are you comfortable? Now tell me now if my object must be initialized at the
time of object creation, should I create no param constructor or not?
Repeating again question. I want to initialize my object
compulsory with object at the time of object creation.
At the time of object creation, I want to initialize my object compulsory. Then should I create constructor? No param
constructor in my class or no.
My question understand I want to initialize my object compulsory at the
time of object creation then what constructor must be available in the class
parameterized no parameter if I don't create parameterized
constructor what constructor available in our class default constructor default constructor
is what constructor no parent constructor okay now tell if you create
both no param param constructors both then customer can create object of your
class either by using no param or by using parameters then tell me your requirement fulfilled
or not fulfilled not fulfilled I must force the user to create object by
passing initialization values then what constructor must be there parameterized
constructor must be there if you create only parameterized constructor in your class do you have no param constructor
also So yes or no what is why yes
default constructor there when default constructor will be provided by compiler
when you don't define constructor when your father give money to you
when you don't have job if you have job why your father will give money when you
define default sorry when you define no constructor what the meaning of it.
Okay. Compiler feeling that okay this developer want to create object with the default values only. So it is adding
default constructor. Okay. When you define constructor explicitly will compiler feels that you want to create
object with the default values. Oh this developer want to create object with given values according to the
constructor logic. So I should not define constructor. So when compiler will generate default constructor only
when you don't define constructor understand my point if you define the
constructor compiler will not generate constructor if you define only parameterized constructor in the class
will compiler software add default constructor no everyone understand right add that point down in above program
in above program. Remove
remove default constructor.
Sorry, sir. S. Enable program remove. No param constructor.
Enable program remove. No param constructor.
Remove no param constructor. Compile.
Remove no param constructor and compile test class.
Now tell me what happened.
Now what happened? It leads to compile time error.
At least two.
It leads to compile time error for what?
Compile time error for no param constructor call. No param at least two compile timer for
first object creation. At least two compile timer for
first object creation with
no param constructor call
because
Tell me why. Because
h there is no no param constructor
because there is no no param constructor
and And there is no
default default construct.
Compiler generates default constructor.
Compiler generates default constructor.
Only if
compiler generates default constructor only if there is no
constructor defined in the class.
Only there is no constructor defined in the class.
only there is no constructor defined in the class.
Okay. Now will you try this case in your system? Okay. Downright
redevelop redevelop
the room and building project. Redevelop
the room and building project.
To initialize. To initialize
to initialize length and breadth values.
To initialize length and breadth values
at the time of
At the time of object creation.
At the time of object creation
later.
Huh? What a thought you are getting. Room class would contain
two fields length and bread. Second, you want initialize lnb at the time of
object creation. Then you should have constructor. How many constructors?
Default constructor. No param constructor your own values. No parameterizer constructor user given
values. Right? So you should define parameterizer constructor. Parameter types
double double variable name parameter name LB and logic is this L equal L this
dob equal to B. Uh next length of breath in mama double. Uh now tell me in this
class you should define set methods not required.
Once you construct the room sometimes we change the room room length and breadth. No
we have to change sometimes once you constructed with some room. Okay suppose
you take this room. Now we decided this much room is sufficient. Now in season we got more students. Then what we do?
We have to combine these rooms. These two rooms then we have remove this middle wall. Now when remove this middle
wall now the length of the room is increasing. Huh? Width may not been increased but length is increased. Again
once season is completed we want to decrease the room to use as a two rooms. Again we will construct the wall in the
middle. Then the length is decreased. So the room length sometimes should be increased and decreased. That means
setter method required or not. Uh once you define con a class with the fields
always you will have setter methods and get methods and display method. Now the constructor parameterized constructor is
there or not there depending on your project requirement. Are you catching my point? So tell me how many members you
have to create in this class? two fields, one parameterized constructor
and two set methods, two getter methods and display method. And next inside main
method can I create object of the class by using no param constructor? No, we
can create object only by using parameterized constructor. If I try to create with no param constructor,
compiler throw error saying that default constructor not available. No param constructor also not available. Are
people understand? Yes. Uh write down write on this code. You should write you know everything. I gave
the idea.
Everyone should Hey,
completed. All right. Main building is main.
You guys are silent then later you'll face problems small small programs also. If he can't drive.
So this is the previous code you have developed. Room class with LV set L get L set B get
B find area find parimeter display method. Right. Uh in this class which
constructor available? Default constructor available. Then you create object by using which
constructor? Default constructor. Right? Uh then what is my requirement? I
want to create object with values. That means I have to pass arguments. Can
I pass arguments here? No. If you want to pass arguments, your class must contain parameterized constructor. Then
what I am asking you to write? Simple.
uh L B public room double L comma B this
L equal to this dot B this L this do equal to B now set method get method
find area find perimeter
find parimeter method and display method That's it. This is what I'm asking to write.
Write down if you're unable to write
fast.
Scroll down.
come again.
Why same?
That's all my question. Why say you want to create room with some length say 500
later you want to change the length either decrease or increase that change value you are passed.
If you have a class with the constructor, initialization is done by constructor. Setter method is now doing
initialization or modification. Set method used for modification not for
initialization. Already initialization done by constructor. Clear?
How can you call construct setter method? Uh what value you are passing that value
will store in. Everyone completed a room class.
Remaining code is same as previous code only. What is newly added? Constructor only newly added. And now building
class. How can you create? Can I create room object by using no
param constructor? Compiler throw error cannot find symbol room because compiler
doesn't add default constructor because there is a parameterized constructor. We
must create object of room class only by using parameterized constructor by passing arguments.
Okay. Right.
completed I want this here I'm initializing or
modifying uh here initializing
here.
Can you draw memory with the flow of execution?
I want you draw memory diagram as I shown in previous class, previous exam.
Everyone should try.
Oops.
If you don't try you get nothing. I'm telling you daily we are going to write the code like this only.
If you try you will get. If you don't try you will not get. Daily you will cry.
So believe me in companies also you are going to work exactly like this only not more than that.
You should try to write code as much as possible and you must try with the program exec
execution flow diagram
memory. See, seeing output is not good. Drawing
memory and visualizing output is good. So that written test exam you can pass easily.
now. Tell me which class you compile. Building class.
Building class we compile. Building class only we will execute. Right?
Uh first what happened? R1 variable memory created. Then the new keyword
will go to room class. Write a room keyword.
New keyword will go to room class. Create the new instance with reference tenant. Uh L variable B variable memory
created with value 0.0.0.
Who will create object? who will initialize object with the
default values. Uh then new keyword job is completed.
Then the new keyword call constructor by passing current object reference. Then
control will go to constructor with how many values? Current object reference argument 100
50. Then how many parameters are created in this constructor? What the first one? this keyword
10 10 and L 100 B
50. Uh what is my intention of passing those two arguments into this
constructor? I want to copy these two values inside non-static variables
available in this object. Did I write logic exactly as I required? Yes,
because I have used this then 0.00 0 0.0 replace with 100.0 and 50.0 zero right.
Uh then execution completed control come back to main method
parameters are gone. Uh now new keyword return the reference into R1. Then tent
stored in R1 pointing. So what is my requirement? I want initialize object at
the time of object creation itself. That is what my target. So tell me I'm able to initialize or not. Yes. Then control
go to next line R1 dot display. Control go to display method. Display method
receive R1 object and display the values. What is the output? We will get 100.0
50.0. Uh next R1 find area. R1 object is
giving to find area 100 into what you get 5,000.0 square ft. Then
next now I'm calling set method. Then by passing R1 set method is called. Set
method is taking the 10 10 and then 90
and tell me different object same object. Same object here how many parameters are created? Two this with 10
10 and L parameter with 90. L reading the 90 and copy into different object.
Same object. Same object L 100 replace with 90.0.
And now set B method is called by passing what now? 30. Now the 50.0
replace with 30. So here are you initializing or modifying? Modify. Clear? If you create
object by using default constructor set method is modifying set method is initializing. So if you call constructor
parameterized constructor and then set method we don't call it as initializing we call it as what modify. So this is
the purpose of constructor and setter method. So finally conclusion set method is used for initializing object after
object creation. Uh next constructor is used for initializing object at the time
of object creation. Hope you all understand. Control 1
compile reach end of the file building
compile successfully executed. R1 initial value is what? 50
total area R1 changed values after set method call and total area 2,700 ft². So
this is the story about constructor related all points. Okay. Will you
practice constructor everything and most important point when default constructor available in the class?
when we don't define any constructor when default constructor I mean will not
be available in the class if we define either no param constructor or
parameterizer constructor if I create parameterized constructor inside the class can I create object by using no
param constructor no compiler will throw error okay based on this knowledge I
will share some test case programs and entry questions at home you have to practice so with This I done with from
my side constructor and constructor based program also I will share some more programs for your practice on
constructor some more projects I can say. Uh now we completed room and building. I want you
go back to our initialize student object at the time of
object creation. Uh initialize employee object at the time of object creation.
Initialize bank account object at the time of object creation. Can you do that? Okay. Uh now let me try to
finalize the difference between constructor and setter method. What is
the difference between constructor and setter method? Are both the same? No.
How many ways we can initialize an object? I mean what the different stages we can initialize an object? I can
initialize object at two stages. At the time of object creation and after object
creation. At the time of object creation, we will initialize object by using constructor. After object
creation, we will initialize by using set method. Which is best?
Constructor set method.
Get method not meant for initializing me for
reading initialization only two. Number one constructor setter method. Which is
best? Set method is best. Constructor is not best really. Why? Constructor has
several problems. Both logics are same. Constructor logic also same. Setter
method logic is also same. Constructor logic also this do.x equal x. Set method also this.x equal x. Constructor has a
problem. What the problem? Say constructor execute only one time per
object. If I write new example, constructor executed. If I write again
new example, is it executing from old object or new object? New object. So
constructor execute only one time per object creation. If I write E1 dot set,
E1 set E1 set. Set method is called by using object. Can I execute set method
repeatedly for the same object? Constructor can be used only for
initialization whereas setter method can be used for both initialization and modification. Constructor executes only
one time per the object setter method execute multiple times for the object. Second point can constructor used for
initializing each property separately. L separately, B separately. Can I
initialize like that separately? No. Both L and B must be initialized at a time. Am I right? Tell me. Can I
initialize LB value separately by using setter method? Yes. Can I modify L
separately, B separately? Yes. So, which is giving more advantages? Which is
giving more flexibility? Set method. And then why constructor given sir? Now, now
finally conclude when should I use constructor in the project? If you want to initialize mandatory properties at
the time of object creation, then only use constructor.
without mandatory property without initializing one property I cannot proceed further then use constructor so
in the project 99% of the time we will create object by using default
constructor with the default values and the next lines of the code we are going work with what setter methods why uh set
constructor has another big problem tell me can I use con I want to initialize
object with uh runtime values I want to read values from the keyboard
and initialize. Can I write the code like this? I want initialize the values from the keyboard means I should write
the code like this. So suppose if you take room object new room of new room of
what I should pass here first value runtime value second value also runtime value. Uh how can I read double value
from the keyboard? SEN dot next double
comma again. SEN dot next double. Yes or
no? I want to create run object by taking values from the keyboard. How
many values I want read? Two values. All right. If I write like this, how end
user know that he has to enter first length of bread. When I run this code,
SEN next double line program execution is passed. Cursor blinking on the
console. Are you able to visualize? When I call SSN next double, what happen? Program execution is passed and cursor
blinking. By seeing the blinking end user can decide he has to enter length operator. No, I have to provide message
now. Now I am providing message here. Carefully visualize system. Print length
double quotes. Enter length. Enter length. Uh tell me when I enter length
here now enter L message is printed. Now the new room room object is created and
then now waiting for the values to enter. So new double new double program execution passes. Now I have entered the
double value as 100. L value as 100. This 100 reading and substituted forward
first next double method. All people understand. Now control move to the next line. Next double call. Again what
happened? Cursor blinking there and asking enter
next value. What is the next value? B you developer you know that you have
to enter B. But how customer know that he has to enter B? Yes or no? I should print a message
where here okay if I print your message what
will be printed? Enter L. Expecting cursor should blink there. Passed and
blink. Passed. Not passed. Not passed. Move to the next line. Ped not passed.
Ah, passed. Now the user feels that I have to enter lina B.
Confusion there. Understand my point? So if you want to read runtime values from the keyboard by using constructor, I
cannot directly read. I must take the help of local variables. Here I should create a double L equal to S CN dot next
double. Understand DA? Then again I have to take here double B equal to S SN dot
next double. Understand? Now here what I should pass in place of SN next double L
and here what I should pass B. Now tell me if my object has 100 variable 100 100
fields are there. If I initialize object with the constructor, how many parameterized constructor I have to
define? 100 parameters. Reading 100 parameters constructor is easy for me.
Second, uh how many local variables I have to create to read runtime values from the keyboard 100 local variables
code become lengthy. That's why taking constructor for initializing object is
not a good practice. Uh then what should I do?
Uh if I take set method observe first I am creating object by using no param
constructor. Uh when I create object by using no param constructor or default constructor it contain default value 0
0. Now I want initialize. What I will do? I will ask the user to enter L
value. Enter number. Enter L. Then can I write
like this? R2 dot set L of SN dot
next double directly here. Come on think. You have to think. Okay. Is it possible
or not? Possible. Why possible? Tell me now. Enter L. Then control go down. SN
next double method is blinking the cursor. Make the cursor blinking. I entered 100. 100 coming and substitute
there and passing 100 to settle. Settle is setting the value to L variable
available in the R2. Understand? Do I need to use a separate variable? No.
Right? Clarity there or not? Uh next I want B value. What will I do again? I
will repeat it. Enter B. Enter B. Uh now B value entered. Uh now set B. Uh now
SSN next double again you call program execution again blinking. Okay. Uh now
reading that value say suppose you are passing here what 50 uh 50 passing to set me set to the R2.B.
So tell me which code is flexible easy for me. Uh no param constructor and setter
method. 99% of the programs we will create object by using no param
constructor and initialize via setter method because constructor cannot initialize each property separately. If
my project has 100 properties define the constructor with 100 parameters reading the 100 parameter constructor calling
100 parameter constructor is not easy. Second for initializing the values with
runtime values I have to read for I have to read runtime values with local variables help later I have to pass
local variables then the code is increasing flexibility not there whereas if I take set method uh I can I no need
to use local variable directly I can pass what set method call as argument to set method and each property we are
setting separately so there is no confusion for me in which order I have to call each order I have to remember
okay so that's why Final conclusion is what are the problems of the constructor can execute only one time per object
using constructor we can perform only initialization cannot initialize each property separately. Uh we must use
local variable for reading initial values from keyboard. Uh next whereas
set method approach is the best approach because can be executed multiple time for the same object. Using setter method
we can initialize and also we can modify. We can define separate setter method for each property and we have
choice to call setter method based on the property we need to initialize and we can ignore some of the properties
initialization. No need to use local variables read initialization value from keyboard. Uh now look at that. Hence 99%
of the time in project we will use no param constructor for no param or default constructor for creating object
with the default values. Then we use set method to initialize object with user given values. Also we use set method for
modifying object values. Understand? Yes. Right. All these points I will share you
have to work out. Conclusion. We have two ways to initialize object constructor and set method. To
initialize object at the time of object creation, we use set method. Sorry, we use constructor. To initialize object or
to modify object data after object creation, we use set method. Which approach is best? Set method approach.
Because of these are the problems and advantages. Clear? Yes sir.
Understood? Yes sir. I will share this room project
with hardcode values. Here I'm hard coding the values right
and also I'm sharing building project with RV. RV means runtime values scanner
object. Uh look at that problem I am showing room R1 equal new room of SCM
next double next double observe feel the problem feel. If you don't feel
no feelings variable R1 already different.
So take it as R.
Okay. S enter 100 again cursor blinking
for whom you are blinking for B and if you are intelligent superman then you will understand it if like me a poor man
is there then confusion uh now if I use a constructor I have to use what local
variables only and then I'm using here local variable take the first value take
second value passing as argument control 1 compile
control to these all what uh what do you call a project manager round or face tof
face round interview you will ask these questions not in the written test exam after you pass written test exam second
round third round these type of questions you will face 100 uh B50 clearly coming or not uh constructor
executed what is that R1 value B value total area uh now I don't want to use
local variable then use setter method Now I enter modified value. Now I'm going via setter method. Look at the
enter modified value L directly pass as argument to settle. Modified value for B
directly pass as argument to set B. And now uh 50 and then what? 20
L value 50 B value 30 and what,000. So this is how you have to practice the
examples. So if you practice this room project with hardcoded values with runtime values and student employee bank
projects also you have to redevelop. Okay. Now so that you will get full clarity on how to work with
constructors. students all the people understand
any confusion in this code constructor point.
Uh look at here there is a concept in the constructor called static
constructor copy constructor. What the concept static constructor and copy
constructor. What is the static variable?
Declare a variable as a static is called uh what is a static method? Declare a
method as a static by using static keyword is called what? Static method. Uh tell me what is a static constructor?
Uh a constructor that is declared with the keyword static is called static
constructor. Is it possible in Java? Can you declare constructor as
a static? No. In a car.net possible in a C#.NET it is possible. In Java it is not
possible to declare constructor as a stat. If you declare constructor as a static compiler will throw error.
Modified static not allowed here. So tell me does Java support static constructor? No.
Modified static not allowed here. Compiler throwing error.
What the solution to this problem? No solution. Concept is not there. Second
there is a concept called copy constructor. Copy constructor. In C++ we
have copy constructor. In a Java also we have copy constructor but we don't call it as a copy constructor.
Understood? A student is learning Java. Will you call him as a Java student? Yes. Because
he taken admission into Java course. So we call him as what? Java student. Will we call him as a Java developer? Now
when Java developer just by joining the course we call Java developer. No. You have to get job and work in the company
and sustain in the job also. That is important. Just by getting job job is not confirmed you'll be in a
provisionary period for six months. So within six months if you don't prove that you are a good you will be terminated after six months. Uh 6 month
salary will get into your pocket. Don't worry. Okay. So if you want to sustain in the company
all this knowledge is also very important. Now there is a concept called copy constructor. What the meaning of
copy constructor? First observe this example.
Don't look at that arrow mark. Uh what is this first constructor?
Default constructor. Default constructor you cannot see that is develop generated by compiler. You
are seeing means it is a no param constructor defined by developer. What is the second constructor?
Third constructor
parameterized constructor. Then what the difference between second constructor and third constructor?
Second constructor we are passing the values individual values X and Y and
storing inside object. Uh what is the third constructor doing?
Is it taking the individual values are taking example parameter? If it is a parameter is example means
you have to pass object of example. If a method parameter is class name,
constructor parameter is class name. What you have to pass that class object you have to pass as a argument. Tell me
now if you write example of example a you are passing what now? Example object
as a argument. Tell me to call no param constructor. Should I have already one object? Can I create very first object
by using this no param constructor? Yes. Uh to call second constructor this int x
comma int by parameter constructor. Should I have already constructor? Not required. Not required. I can I mean
should I have already object or not required? Not required. I can create very first object. Example E1 equal new
example of five 6 I can call. Everyone understand? Tell me to call this third
constructor. Should I have already object? Can I create very first object by using this third constructor? No.
Why? Because its parameter is example. That mean there should be already one object.
Now what is the functionality of this constructor? It is taking one object as a argument copying that first object xy
values into the second object xy variables because it has a logic to copy
one object data into another object. That's why this constructor is called copy constructor. A constructor whose
parameter is same as the current class and has the logic to copy data from
argument object into current object we call it as what copy constructor. Are
people understand? If the class doesn't have parameter we call it as no param constructor. If a class has a parameter
same as a field we call it as what parameterized constructor. If a if a
constructor parameter is same as a current class, we can call it as a parameterized constructor. But
technically we also call it as what? Copy constructor because its logic is copying the data from argument object
into current object. Uh we can create very first object by using no param constructor. We can create very first
object by using parameterized constructor. And we cannot create very first object by using parameter sorry
copy constructor because it is parameter object. First of all you have to pass at least one object.
Everyone understand? Uh then observe the flow of execution. How the objects are created and the flow of execution.
I don't explain. You only understood.
If you have any confusion, ask. I'll explain.
Law of execution. You only understand. I don't help every point. You know,
understand
tell me what did you understand? Uh I have no param constructor create object
by calling no param constructor. Then new keyword creates object with the
memory xy variables and pass the current object reference to the constructor stored in this pointing to that object
x= 10 y= 20 or this dox this x equal and this do y equal to 20
10 20 copied into the current object constructor execution completed control return to main method new keyword
returns t and stored in even point okay now uh for creating object using no param
constructor I should have any pre pre already created object not required can be first object. Next I want to create
object by using parameterizer constructor. Do I need any already existing object? No. I can create very
first new object without connection to the previous object. New example of 15,
16. Then what happen? New keyword create another new object XY 0. Then new
keyword calling parameterized constructor. control is going to parameterize the constructor with the
three values. Logic is copying the parameter xy into current object xy values are copied 00 replace with 1560.
Okay. Uh then now control is coming to uh what do you call main method. New
keyword return the reference and store it in e2 point. Now I call e1 dot display. Display method is called by
passing 10. XY value is available in 10 object 1020. E2 dot display. X display
method is called by E2. XY values are read from where which object E2 object 15 16 then I am trying to modify E2
object data E2.x X equal to 45. E2 doy equal to 55. Allowed or not allowed?
Allowed. And now 40 15 replace with 45. 16 replace with 55. Then now I am
creating object by using third constructor. Example E3 equal to new example of E2. What the meaning of it?
Store E2. Now copy E2. Now uh copy E2. So new keyword create the new reference
new object with T30 XY value 0. Then new keyword is calling constructor by
passing how many references? Two references. Current object reference and already available object reference with
the two reference 3030 2020 20 come here. How many parameters created? Two.
This with 30 parameter E with 2020. Now what the logic? Read E.X value and copy
into this dox. What the E dox value? 2020. 2020 X value 45. Copy into current
object X. Are you following? read 2020 object Y value copy into current object
Y then look at there 45 55 copy from E2 object into E3 object control come back
to the main method new keyword return the reference to end point tell me if I call E2 dot display what are the values
we'll get 45 55 E3 dot display also tell me because the data is the same are the
objects same no data is copied but objects are different. How can I compare by using
double equal to operate? So what the use of copy constructor? A constructor whose parameter is same as current class
contains the logic to copy data from current argument object into current object is called copy constructor. It
has a logic this dox equal to e.x current object x equal to argument
object x. For calling copy constructor, we must have already one object. We must
pass existing object as argument to this constructor. Uh here in the copy
constructor object is not stored object data is copied after constructor
execution completed previous object data current object data is saved. Okay. Now
the question what is the difference in copy constructor in C++ and in Java? In
C++, copy constructor is called automatically
by assignment operator. In C++, copy constructor is called
automatically by assignment operator. In C++, when you write example E4 equal to
E2, E2 reference is not copied. Separate new object is created and E2 data copied
into E4. Are you following my point? Uh in C++ at the assignment operator
separate new object is created. Old object data is copied. C++ copy
constructor is not called explicitly. It is called implicitly by assignment
operator. In Java assignment operator will not call the constructor. Simply E2
reference is copy into E4. Tell me E4 and E2 both are pointing to same object.
then data is same and comparison double equal to operator also same true will
come understand my point so this is the point you have to understand C++ copy constructor to Java copy constructor the
difference you have to understand okay so in Java we have default constructor
no param constructor parameterized constructor and copy constructor will you consider copy constructor as a
separate type no copy constructor tree is a parameterized constructor whose
parameter type is same as current class contains the logic copy data from current object argument object into
current object. Okay. Now will you type this program in your system and practice? Uh if you practice then you
will remember the concept and you can easily answer in the coming classes. Clear? So tomorrow class is very
important. Tomorrow we are going to learn constructor last topic constructor overloading just a five minutes topic
and then we are entering into blocks. So by tomorrow end we are going to develop
one small project by including all concepts. Understand? Uh so all
programming elements completed class variable block constructor method by
using these five concepts plus instance plus reading runtime values. By these
seven concepts we have to develop one small project to get an idea to create real world object exactly like in real
world people revise and come just today given two programs what constructor room
project and then next this copy constructor program if you practice and come enough previous topics also
automatically revise and come clear type in your system and see output by copy from the notes
don't open notes try to develop the code by your own. Don't be a copy constructor.
Understand? Thank you. That's all for today class. If you got any doubts while reading, you can send message. We will discuss.
Comparison objects physically same or different.
What will happen if
it will consider as a duplicate? Huh?
It will be considered as duplicate, right?
Again, same question you're asking it become duplicate.
Can you create duplicate members? uh with the same signature you cannot
create two members either variable method or constructor at least to compile them
Equologist
Example
class name for creating parameter class name for creating the class.
Think to the point.
Example object.
Simple point.
Sorry method.
It's very
Thank you.
It's not college. Don't take permission.
Abishekumar the question is wrong. How can I apply static to the parameter?
You apply static to the method not to the parameter.

