ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Happy Somay.
So did you pray God for what?
For Java. Huh?
Many times I told you again reminding God will bless you not by praying God.
God will not bless you by praying God. God will bless you by doing your job. If
you do your job, God will be with you. Okay? Uh God is also have a selfish
nature. You know if God helped you to get a job later you will celebrate his birthday
his marriage day now yes or no so who can celebrate a god
festival only who is having money if you want to get money first of all you have to do your job uh if you do your job if
you do your responsibilities you will get a job you will get money with that money you can also celebrate god
festivals also if you are not having money you yourself cannot live where you can make the god to live.
Am I right? So that's why change your mind. What you have to do? Do your job.
Automatically god will be with you and make you successful. Later you can make god also successful. See same thing as a
teacher. So now I am working very hard for you giving you wonderful subject to you. If you study well who will get job?
You with your job success you can also make me success. Huh? With your job, you
can tell to your next generations, next generations, next generations to my class only.
2004 I started my careers. 2004 students who got married and who got child if
they want Java they will search for me only because their success is my success and their brothers, sisters, next coming
generations all people are coming to my class. It's a true I'm not joking. Okay.
Uh so if you get success I will also automatically get success. Tell me you
have to work for whom purpose? For your sake you ought to work. For my
sake you ought to work. Useless fellow. My sake you are to work.
That's what common sense not there in your mind. You have to work for me
not for you. I am working for my sake of for your sake. I am working for your sake and you have
to work for my sake. To make you successful I am working and to make me
successful you have to work. That is what mutual understand. But what are you doing? Not working. You
are failing and making me fail. You know when someone fell in water if you give
your hand to that person what happened? He will not get saved. He will also pull
you into water. You know this when somebody is dying if
you go and give your hand to him he will die. He will also make you die. So how
to save him? He should not hold you. Remember when you are trying to save someone you should he should not hold
you. You only should hold safely somewhere. You know generally when somebody fell in water you have to pull
them out by using hair. So if hair is not there what to do? You know uh so
somewhere somehow shut or something you have to hold. You should not give your hand to that person. If somebody is
getting current shock then can you go and touch your hand there? No. First you
protect yourself and then save. Clear? Uh so requesting you all today and all
people try to think you have to work for faculty success automatically you will
get success also faculty also will get success. Will you work for me? How?
Instagram, YouTube reals, YouTube shots, Facebook videos. Huh?
Uh, tell me, did you work on these exam these questions? Tell me what is a class?
Class is a blueprint of an object. us
from which we can create multiple objects of same color. You just by hearted or got visualized.
Class is a blueprint of an object. Class student open bracket closed bracket.
Blueprint means is it representing particular object or is it representing the group of objects
that's why it is called blueprint. So I want you to tell class is a user
definfed data type. It is a blueprint of an object from which we can create multiple objects of same type. Tell me
why class is called blueprint. What is a blueprint? A design document
from which we can create multiple things of same type is called what? Blueprint.
Class is a design document of an object from which we create multiple object. So class can be called as a blueprint.
Always ask a question why. Why blueprint? Why you are calling class as a blueprint? Then clarity you will get.
And next, what is an object? Object means two things you have to tell. Number one, real world. Number two,
programming world. What is a object? Object is a real world object which is
an instance of a class. And then what is the meaning of instance?
The memory created from the class with non-static variables.
The memory one copy memory created from the class with non-static variables is
called what instant yesterday I asked what is what is an object what object contain all the
people know answer if I tell you then you will uh yes yes and you forgot you
are ginist irresponsible why I got angry yesterday if other batches I would have
scholled them for half an hour but your batch why I didn't scold you are all working nice
but little laziness little ignorance is there that's why yesterday I cancel the class instead of
scolding I cancel the class I don't want to scold you real I'm
telling you okay your batch is working such a nice way so super I'm I'm fully satisfied with the way you your batch
people are working some one or two waste fellows are there we no need to consider them but 99% of the students in your
batch is working wonderful awesome Okay, I am again getting my my before
corona batch before corona how much I enjoyed teaching Java same way I'm enjoying
teaching in your batch also really I'm telling that much I enjoy before your batch 6 p.m. is there in that batch also
I enjoyed. Okay, that batch is not up to your level. They're also wonderfully
learning but the practice the examples what you are developing they have not developed. I was satisfied with that
batch but with your batch more satisfied. Okay. So that's why yesterday
you are little lazy and ignorance and forgot. So I want to give a chance for you to go back to the room and study. If
I don't punish you the problem is next class again you will come back with laziness.
Next classes all depending on these five questions here already told you after
methods after types of variables chapter completed I told everyday you are working on these concepts only so you
should not forget what is a class what is what is an object what is a class what is a instance now the question is
object and instance both are same object means real world thing instance
means memory okay Now the real world object in
the programming world is also memory only. Now that's why what is an object?
Instance of a class. But is the object and instance both same? No. Memory by is
also not same. Object means complete values.
You take student is a object means what? Institute name. Student name. Student
address. Institute address. Everything completely you have to consider as what object but instance means what
that's why yesterday asked what instance contain what instance contains I want if you don't get that visualization clarity
you cannot understand blocks uh what the purpose of instance instance is contains
only non-static variables memory then where static variables memory available
in the class why static variables are called class variables because their memory is
available in class scope. Where non why non-static variables are called instance
variables? Because their variables are available in instance scope. Huh? Tell
me object means what? Only non-static values. No, static values also. So if
somebody asked what is an object what you should answer both static and non-static field values together is
called object. Understand? Uh only non-static field values is called
instance. Now tell me static block is meant for initializing object static
variables are static variables only static variables. Next
non-static block and constructor are meant for initializing object only
instance only instance. Generally people say uh constructor is used for
initializing object. Why constructor is initializing instance. By the time
constructor initializing instance already static variables are initialized uh the pending portion is what
initialization non-static variable. Once non-static variables initialization is completed, the complete static
non-static variable initialization is over. That means object is full object is ready to use now. Uh so what is the
point? How many blocks are there? Three blocks. Static block, non-static block,
low color block, static block, non-static block, low color block. Uh tell me is static block is a full name?
No. Static initializer block is a non-static block is official name. No.
What is official name? In instance initializer block. There is no
term called non-static block. We have a term called non-static variable non-static method. But we don't have
non-static block. But we still calling as a non-static block for the flow purpose
for matching matching terminology purpose. Okay. Instead of going that direction coming back. So now we are
just calling non-sty block. But officially what is the name? Uh if you enter ask a question how many
types of blocks are there? What you should say? Three types of block. Static initializer a block instance initializer
block local block. How many types of variables are there? Four types. What
the four types? Static variable. One second. If you say non-static
variable, people will not give you job. People feel you don't know types of variables.
Uh instance variables uh people are having some mad mentality. Instance
variable if you say you should call what static variable or class variable class variable. If you want to use instance
you have to use class. But people are not using the class. They are using ja. Go that side. Come this side. Static
variable non-static variable. Parameter local variable. What is the opposite? Static variable class variable.
non-static variable, instance variable, parameter, parameter, local variable, local variable. But people are using
static variable, instance variable, parameter, local variable. People are
like that. So what should you? We should also follow the same otherwise you will feel people feel you don't get job. And
next most danger people are feeling that parameter is not a variable. How many types of variable? Three variables.
Static variable, instance variable. No people are right telling that
instance variable static variable parameter order people are not learning the
properly people are not telling the structurally order so jigjack order they're coming how many accessibility
modifiers four what the four public private
oh my godh public private
Private default protected public that is the order you have to learn but people
are learning order jigj public private default protected or private public default protected okay that is wrong
okay so you have to use the order private default protected public clear
very important point right so let us conclude the story now I want to create real world object in the programming
world for that what I required class inside as static fields. Next instance fields and
the next blocks. Which block? Static block for initializing static variable.
Instance block for initializing non-static variable. Common to all constructors. Then
following by overloaded constructors, no param constructor and parameterized constructor. Then following by
set methods, get methods. then following by business logic method and then
following by display method two string method. So this is the structure of the class clear
inside the method inside the static block non-static block uh constructor or
setter method get method business logic method two string method if you want to decrease the scope of the local variable
then we will use local block. Is it clear? So this is the complete program
structure. How you have to create a class. If you want to bring real world object into the programming world, we
have to use five programming elements. Number one, class. Number two, variables, blocks, constructor, methods.
The order of arranging them inside a class. class, class name, open bracket, static field, instance fields, static
block, instance block, constructors, setter method, get method, business
logic methods, uh what do you call display method. So this is the order and last if you required any inner classes
you can write because inner classes we didn't clear so up to now I'm stopping clear. Now today let us try to do
practicals on a static block and non-static block. Hope all these questions you got clarity and you got
clarity on what is an instance one copy memory created from the class with
non-static variables memory. What it contains non-static variables memory.
What is an object? Real world thing which is an instance of a class. What object contains? Both static variables
and non-static variables. Uh um uh who how can we store values common to all
objects? Static variables where static variables memory allocated class. How
can we store values separately for each object? Non-static variable where non-static variable memory allocated
inside the instance. Uh why static variable is called class variable? Because it provide memory in the class
scope. Uh why non-static variables are called instance variable? Because it provide memory inside instance. Clear?
Now let us try to understand practically static block first and then
non-static block
story is a little heavy. Ready? First point, what is a static block?
What is a static block? Okay. Static block is a block. Which block?
Method block or class level block? Uh a name a class level block. A nameless
block that is placed inside the class. Class means inside me outside me.
A block a nameless block that is placed inside class with static keyword is
called what? Static block. What is the use of static block? It is used for
initializing static variable and executing some logic at the time of
class loading only once. Tell me before main method I want execute some logic
compulsory compulsory I want to execute some logic before main method. Where I should write that logic? Inside static
block. Okay. Inside static block we have to place. Okay. Uh then observe now.
Okay. 1 minute. Let me show you how many programs are there. So that your mind will be ready.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19.
Uh totally 25 programs are there. Okay.
25 program completed in one program also
you can complete 25 programs also you can learn what do you want one or 25 one
25 and the mind will be blasted more knowledge you will get 25 more
knowledge more job more package more salary is it bad now
more knowledge Agenda more responsibilities I'll take say what do you say
25 more salary
yeah my success I am working for my success not your success
you will get job first more salary you will get and more happy life you will get okay and remember very very
important always I'm telling you the same thing for your seniors also number
College time work yourself enjoy your life up to college it is your life once
college completed it is not your life it is your parents life after marriage it
is not your life your life partner life okay after children's it is not your
life your children's life sir when my life
again after your children's marriage
long life you are telling me correct okay realize realize very important your
life your happy life your time will be 22 years from the day you born to 22
years your life however you want you can enjoy your life no one will stop 22
30 life 30 years that 6 years of 8 years of life is very crucial. People who
correctly plan these six years they will get wonderful successful luxurious life.
These eight years who are not work hard who are only lazy fellows like time
wasting uh they will be struggle the rest of next 70 years till you born I
mean till you leave. Okay. So people who are planning this 8 years correctly
means I can say 22 to 25 job settling time. Okay. Now girls your marriage time
is 23 to 25. Okay. 23 to 25 between you should
compulsory get married. Uh no I first I want to get a job. I should settle my
life. Later I will think about marriage like cinema heroins. Okay. Then your
life will be spoiled. Lot of problems you will face in the future. What are the problems? Coming days I will tell.
Next boys, what is your marriage age? 28.
28. Understand? 28. No other option. 28.
Answer 28. Where I can get a job? That's what I'm saying. 22 to 28. You have how
many years gap? Six years also if you're not settling your life properly not getting job not
earning the sufficient money to get married that is your failure don't get married be like sama
be alone # bachelor nowadays you know people are
creating such a bad statement releasing the market saying that no marriage no
marriage no marriage whoever say no marriage I want to catch him and murder People
are spoiling the Indian values, Indian culture,
creating fun on family life, such a worst people are coming in the social media. Okay. So really I'm telling okay
so change your don't follow them. If you see such a anchors or heroes or anybody
saying that okay marriage life is waste, marriage life is worse then immediately unfollow them. report report them to the
Google really they are spoiling the family culture Indian culture isn't it? Uh now
you have to get married by 20 years compulsory. 28 years compulsory. Why?
After 28 if you get married now slowly slowly problems will start. What problems? Your childrens will you will
get the children in old age. Okay, means around you know first child
you will get around if suppose you get 30 32 years like that if you get married then you will get child by 33 years or
34 years and then first child will get then second child maybe after 40 years
finally the time they are getting marriage age you will not be there
understand realize my point then who will make your childrens
Okay. Uh uh second problem listen very important along with this many points you're going to get
next point then when your childrens are come to the I know playing age then when
they come and say daddy let's go and play what to play no
you'll become old no are you realizing
uh so please try to change your mind set your career properly
You know I am such a person. I will not only teach you Java. I will also set your career mindset future also. If you
take it serious and work your life will be awesome wonderfully. You will enjoy your life and will give wonderful life
to your uh wife and also wonderful life to your future childrens and grandchildrens.
Yeah. What are you today? Many calls are coming.
Are you catching my point? So 22 to 28
people who not 28 even 25 3 years 22 to 23 means B tech finally year two until
you get the job. So if you are properly plan your time manage your time then
your life will be next level. Next you should get married by 28 years
compulsory. Tell to your parents you entered into 28. Tell your parent search
for your I know life partner. No sir, my target is mar what you call uh love
marriage. Okay, search your partner no problem. But until you get the job, you
should not look for the marriage or life partner or lover. Next after get job
first two years are the most important in your life. These two years if you spend the time for the enjoyment not
learning proper subject new technologies according to the company next complete years you are going to struggle in your
job. Okay, beat a completed first one year you have to work very hard for the
language learning and improving your programming knowledge get job after getting job first two years sincerely
you have to work Saturday also you have to work on learning more technologies knowledge so that you will you'll become
very strong then after two years completed with this company change the company you will get double salary means
that time you are come to 28 years around okay then you tell to your parents marriage by end of 28 years you
are about to enter into 29 then you should 100% get married okay now uh so
remaining story I will tell you coming classes okay now so after get married what you should do how you should be
with your family life everything I'll explain okay uh everything first day if I say your g is now everything every
point you will forget okay uh right so come back now what about girls I told
you now 23 3 to 25 maximum 25.
And next let me tell you one last point. Generally the people who fall in love
remaining as sad people lifelong. The reason two problems are there.
Unfortunately if you get marriage also problems will be there. Fortunately if
you got breakup also problems will be there. 99% of love love will be broken.
The reason is uh girls you know parents the moment the girls are coming at BTech
end the parents are start searching for the you know marriage.
If you go and ask the girl's parent uncle you know
uh I love your uh child please get married and he will slap you. Why? After
marriage lot of responsibilities will be there. Those responsibilities can you handle without job
and can the parents will wait for you till you get the job and come to the stage of one lakh per month minimum one
lakh is required per month to handle the family needs. So you are still
struggling you yourself to settle then after get marriage how can you take care of your wife? So if you fall in love in
the education time 100% you cannot get married then your lover will be there in
your brain and heart for lifetime that regret will be there in the lifetime you cannot be happy in your
life that's why don't fall in love while education after education completed uh
after getting job then if you fall in love definitely can go and ask your uncle no then they will agreed because
you already in a job well settled right that is Reason uh after okay suppose if
you got married the same lover then the second problem start what is that before
marriage uh you are giving importance to your lover every day you are calling hi
baby okay uh I love you baby like you know sending messages gives a lot after
marriage your target is what settle the life getting more salary more money then
your focus is shifted from your lover to what job career
Now listen now your lover focus shifted on you.
Before marriage not that much after marriage comparisons will start before marriage you send the message now you
are not sending message you changed okay torture will start.
Uh so that's why if you got love marriage then you have to balance your life before marriage how you were same
way you should be boys remember otherwise torture will be there and tortured girls will not really torture
they are expecting the love from you that's it but you are thinking it is in a wrong way and saying that girls are
torturing girls are torturing wife is torturing girls wise never a they're expecting only love from you care from
you more attendance from me that's it but What you idiots are doing only giving importance to the career morning
to evening be in the career only thinking about in the middle one message if you send oh my god they will be very
happy okay now so give importance to your life partner also after job you
know when you get job in the company remember your company manager first
today first first meeting he will tell balance your personal life and company life
my manager also told to me so as a manager I'm also telling telling you okay once you get job your focus is
shifted from your personal life to job job tensions and there are some people are there who will carry the job tension
to the home and home environment they're making as what company only all whatever they happen in the office everything
discussing in the office I mean in the house and then bringing all the you know frustrations into the office and
scolding the wife scolding the children not enjoying this is a very very bad once you step out from the office door
Everything you should forget there some people in the house fight with the wife and coming back and then showing all the
frustration on the team members. Hey no that environment that class context is
class context instance context is instance context context is context
you should not mix all. Okay. House problem should not bring to the office. Office problem should not bring to the
house. Both should be separate. These points if you don't remember and don't implement you are going to make your
life clumsy. Hell. Okay. Now remember all the points come to the story. Okay.
Java Java GPT will tell you right. Google
will tell you if you want. But who will tell the life? Your parents will tell 100% will not tell
because parents are always feeling it should be private should not talk. This
thing should not this thing should not talk. Who will talk? Parents not talking friends talking all wrong directions.
Right? So that's why I'm taking chance as part of Java all places. Wherever I
have a chance to tell you then I am telling you people who are taking it serious they are implementing people who
are taking bakqua and leave it. So target learning Java
sincerely fast and try to get the job fast sir where jobs are recession is going okay then recession only will go
with you. If you feel resision, recision. If you feel I want only one
job, there are so many companies are there. I have to search for the job. Companies will not come to your door.
You have to go to companies. You have to find the way to go to the companies. You have to search. Okay. With the Java, you
have to get the job. That's it. Is it only software engineer one job is there on Java? No. There are so many other
opportunities are there. You have to find you have to visualize what are the different jobs are there. make a list
what are the different jobs I can do using Java in my after my MCA completed
I took my decision I don't want to take money from my brother actually my parents are very poor my brother only
giving money to me then my brother giving money to me for his family for his children and for my my father
agricultural also so he's little amount fee I mean salary is distributing so I
decided I don't want to be burden on my brother my MCA completed now is the I have to earn the money then on Java what
job I can get quickly as a mentor I can get job quickly as a trainer I can get
job quickly then I get job as a trainer immediately because I have the talent you have to identify your talent what
where I am best for what reason I am here where I am best what what I can get you have to find out you started create
your own job remember you know when I was childhood I I used to see all movies
on around job oriented, government is not providing job, government is making me you know jobless so scolding the you
know the time I used to feel why these fellows are shouting on government can give 100 jobs but how many people are
there lacks of people so you create your own job you find your own job where you
can get money ultimately do something you know that time if I don't have the
teacher job if you go don't get as a faculty job you know I would have started one chai bank
Okay really what I can do where I am good I want to earn money except
cheating others any job you can do don't cheat others don't bluff others so you
individually do any job chai bankanka anything temporary okay or mentor job
anything you can do online training online job anything you can do our target is what software engineer is our
target until I am reaching that between the way I can do whatever I want I will do that I will get the money. So that is
your target. You should not wait for your parents to send money. You should not trouble them because your BT already
completed. And next you should not wait for one company to give you job. You search for the company walk in the way
whatever the money how much money. If you able to earn just 100 rupees also enough per month 100 rupees. Okay. Okay.
Your mobile recharge is sufficient. Mobile recharge purpose you earn your money. So slowly slowly think about how to earn
money. Once you start the flow earning money automatically money will start come to your way. So this target you
should have built still you are you know like a irresponsible student jolly
coming to the class joy jolly jolly you are going to the room happily throwing the book some corner this this not this
a wrong thought process already two of completed now slowly you should start thinking about what I learn how to use
this knowledge by today class completed or tomorrow class completed or by weekend completed objectoriented
programming completed means language is completed. Once the language is completed if you know how to speak in
English you can start giving the seminars or not you can prepare some note on the some topic you take and
prepare seminars you can started go to some places to give the seminar to get the money some motivations you can
prepare so that's what I'm telling what are the different ways I can get money on Java list out find the ways and try
to get the job it's not like only software engineer in the in the flow as
a temporary job as a part-time job you can do anything and permanent job is
software engineer and permanent place to work
foreign not India if you work in India moderate
okay maximum 2 years or 3 years should be in India after that you should shift
it to foreign what purpose uh bring their money to India
Remember I told you already this right? Uh you should go to foreign bring our
money back to India. Olden days people come to India all our treasure they steal and take it back. No now we have
to bring our money back into India. Make India development country. Development country developed country. Developed
country. Okay. Still I am listening. Developing developing develop.
And next very very important last point save water
save power unnecessary don't have fans and aces some are okay no problem next save water
okay not don't know everywhere we have cement roads only everywhere we have floors completely concrete only there
then where water absorb in the earth where it will go under the land there's
no chance water going going and finally You know ground water is decreasing you
know right every summer we are hearing so many things. Uh so when you construct your house make sure the water you know
there is something what do you call them as
water harvesting. There is something called water harvesting something is there. So you have to construct something to go get all complete your
building water should go into the land. That is why you have to construct your house and try to motivate your colony
people also wherever you are. So try to have water harvesting. So your colony
the water coming should not go outside of your colony. It should go under the earth. That is how you have to plan. So
please take care of this rain water also very very important. Okay. Start thinking like a responsible person. Your
student days happy days are over. Okay. Now they slowly ought to become responsible citizen. Take care of your
society. Remember you came here not to spoil the environment.
You are just a guest here. So this 70 years you live here. Leave it in a better way to live for your next
generations. You know right for what purpose the know king Ashoka
has planted the trees for him sake for future generations. So we are also here for working for future generations only.
So don't spoil. Okay. Uh now come back to subject. Okay. Ch today motivation.
Uh final conclusion is what marriage age is uh girls 23 or 25 boys is compulsory 28.
Okay. Further 28 years. Next I will tell you what to now tell me now here I'm
creating a class. What is the purpose of the class? Class is meant for representing objects.
uh we just with the class name represent object. No, we need to store values. For storing values, I need static fields and
instance fields. Uh static fields to initialize I need static block. Do you have any static block in this class? No.
Uh I want static block. Look at here. Is it a static block? Uh what is a static block? A a nameless block created inside
a class with the keyword static is called static block. Uh if I create a
static block, is it automatically executed by JVM? Is a static method automatically
executed by JVM? No. Is a static block automatically executed by JVM? Yes, I'm
compiling. Okay, one second, buddy. Let me change the settings.
Uh compile successfully then executed.
What is up to coming? Hi. Hello. Okay. Now automatically static block is
executed. How many times static block executed? Can I execute more than once? Because
there is no name. There is no name that's why we cannot call and execute. Okay. Then next observe this case.
What is the purpose of stat block? Static block is used for executing some logic when class is loaded into JVM. Can
I execute logic by using static variable? Already we learn static
variable. Uh then I want to execute some logic at the time of class loading. When
class loaded into JVM static variable memory allocated then variable initializer as part of
initialization if I write SOP is it allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Compiler throw error because print is a
void method. Now I am writing something like this. Now is it allowed?
I created static variable assigned with a method called my own method. And this method is what? nonvoid method in and s
and high. So whatever I executed in static block same thing I'm executing with the two concept static variable and
static method I have already learned static variable already learned static method I learn already how to combine
them then why extra concept static block I have to learn why static block concept is given by sun micro system the problem
with the static method what I want to execute this logic only one time when
class loaded into JVM if I use static variable and static method combination
two problems are there. Problem number one memory is allocated extra memory created and time based
memory waste. Second problem can I call this M1 method?
Yeah, it is a method. Can I call methods? Yes, I can call
method. Uh now tell me what is the output you will get? High executed two times.
High is executed two times. Look. Hi. Hello. Hi. What is my requirement? I
want execute logic two times. Only one time. Only one time I want execute. But
what happened here? Two times executed. My requirement is failed or not? Uh what is my requirement? I want to execute
logic only one time. Uh if I choose a method, I can call it and execute more
than once. Tell me why you are able to call because it has name. Then remove
because name is there. you are calling remove the name. If I remove the name, return type is allowed.
No, remove it. Uh then if I remove name and return type, it become what? Block
which contain what? Static. So it is what? Static block. Can you call it? No.
Remove it. Can you call it? No. Remove it. Then variable required. No, remove it. Can you return value? No. Remove it.
Finally, what is coming? Statty block is coming. So what is a static block? A just nameless block that
is placed inside a class with a keyword static is called static block. What the
purpose of static block? Static block is used for executing some logic when class
is loaded into JVM only one time at class loaded into JVM. Why static block
is given when I have static variable and static method already. static variable
static method wise if you develop the logic to execute only once there is no chance it executed only one there is a
chance that we can call the method and execute more than once and finally we our requirement is failed that's why
static block is given now tell me why static block doesn't have a name why
static block doesn't have name if the block has a name we can call it and execute that's why static block doesn't
have name okay the next important point.
What is the logic we can write inside a static block? Hey, static block is like a static method. Whatever logic is
allowed inside a static method, everything is allowed inside static block but with few limitations. Number
one, can I write sll? Yes. Can I create a variable inside a static block? Then
is it a static variable or local variable? Local variable because static
is that it is not static block. The variable declared inside a static method is a static block local. The variable
declared inside a static method is a local variable. The static is applied only to this block and it is allowed to
execute when class is loaded into JVM. Uh this is what variable? Local variable. I can create local variable. I
can read. Can I create object inside a standing block? Yes. And print that object. Can I write conditions? Yes. Can
I write loops? Yes. Can I write break? Yes. Can I write try catch finally? Yes,
we can write try catch finally also. Whatever you can write inside a method everything you can write inside a static
block with some limitation. What the limitation? Uh can I write return keyword?
No return keyword is used for terminating the method and send the
control to calling place. Hey, if you terminate staty block class loading
initializing completed fully or not completed, not completed. You started
coming from your room to the classroom. You walked walked walked walked all the way up to the door and you have seen me
and from here left back. Then why did you come up to this way? Time based. No, you came up to here for
enter into the class and sit in the class and then started learning Java. If you come up to the classroom main door
and then see uh today class is running then you left back and sleeping in the room. What the use of this uh static
block is meant for what? Loading class and initializing the class. When class is loaded and initialized in the middle
terminated then why you are loading the class. So that's why return keyword is not allowed. If you place return keyword
compiler will throw error. That is that return outside method. Written keyword
allowed only inside method. return keyword I mean study block is not a return I mean not a method next return
semicolon allowed or not allowed not allowed compiler throw error return outside a method uh next can I use a
throw statement throw new arithmetic exception what throw keyword is doing throw keyword is also terminating the
static block by throwing exception then fully executed or not executed not executed if I write throw statement
compiler will throw error look at here I got error unreachable statement and try.
Okay, first let me remove this control one compiler throwing error. Look,
initializer must be completed normally. Initializer must be completed normally.
So throw statement is also not allowed. Very important. If you want to place a
throw statement, you are allowed but only surrounding with what? Try catch. If you place with a try catch whenever
throw statement throwing exception it is caught by catch block and allowed. So tell me inside a static block what are
the statements allowed? What is the rules in creating static block? Uh the declaration should contain only static
keyword. Second inside static block we can place all statements which are allowed inside static method but return
state return statement and throw statement without try catch not allowed. So this is only the rule remaining all
points are allowed. Is it clear everyone? Uh so tell me when I run this code what is the output you will get? SB
10 A B C and here for loop executed B less than 30 B++ the B value 20 will
come and B++ how many times is B++ executed? One time break. Break means it
is immediately terminated. Now going out only here will get what? 20. That's it.
Control 1 compile successfully. Control 2
SB 10 ABC 20 and what many. So what is static block? Why static block? Why
static block doesn't have name? Uh what are the statements allowed inside static block? All four points are clear, right?
Let me try the next point. Uh look at here. Is there any compile time error?
What is the compile time error? A and S1. A and S1 leads to compile time
error. Why? Where in the sandy block main method?
Why compile the error? The variable A and the variable S1 are
local variable to static block not static variable. The variables created
inside a static block are local variables. These variables are available
only until static block execution completed. Once static block execution completed, control come out. The
variable A and S1 are destroyed. we cannot access inside main method. So
what is the fifth point we are trying to understand? The variables created inside a static block are not static variable.
They are local variables. We cannot access outside of the static block. Next, what the use of static block?
Static block is used for initializing static variable at the time of class
loading into JVM. Now I have taken one static variable and I have taken static
block reading that variable in the main method. Now tell me what is the output of this program. What the flow of
execution of this program? What is the what is the flow of execution? First when class is loaded
into JVM static variable a memory created with a default value.
Then next a equal to semicolon. I have written any value here. No. Then zero is
available as zero. The next main method executed or static block executed. Uh before static block learning we have
learned what main method executed. But before main method static block executed. What is the output coming on
console? SB. Then after static block completed now main method. What is the output coming? Main. Uh then A. A is
reading from where? Class. Output is what? Zero. Any doubts?
Tell me people who miss today class will they pass in the interview? All these questions will be there in the
interview. When you attend a return test exam of any company these questions will be
there and tomorrow onwards daily I'm using this flow. Will people understand? Because of Sriam
now celebrations people miss the class. Can God Lord Shiva sorry Lord Sri Rama
Rama will come and sit next to you. Yo you miss the class because of my festival let me teach. Will he teach you?
Repeat this fla. Are you not seeing Abhishek? Are your eyes not working?
Are you blind? Abishek. Come on. Come on. First reply
working then what you want me to explain clear arrow marks I have written what
you expecting me to tell again tell me I'll explain
what you are expecting me to explain I'll explain again I'm unmuting you asked your question
now what do you want to know after a part
uh be shake unmute and ask
good morning sir hello ask what is your doubt
sir I just wanted to know that after a initialization we what you want doubt what is your doubt
don't say not understand what you not understand tell me I'll explain after a is equal to0 what will execute
huh semicolon after a is equal to z what will it to execute.
What is there static static block or a a declaration?
A declaration part. Speak louder. So static block will be execute or a
declaration part will be exe. A declaration part executed already. A declaration part executed. Now why again
executed? Okay sir. Understand. A declaration already completed right.
unmuted. Why you muted again? Yes sir, I am there.
You understood? Yes sir. Then why you are not saying that? Why you muted yourself?
Sorry. Yes sir, I understood for anything answer is sorry.
Uh what the step number one? Class is loaded.
Step number one, class is loaded. Step number two, search for static variable found memory created.
One, two, then three, initialize. Four, static block. Five, main method. And
there simple.
Uh any doubts tell me main method first executed static meth main static block first
executed without executing static block main method will not have chance to execute.
Okay, next question. What the use of static block
for initializing static variables and then initializing
means what? access the static variable and store value. Uh then get that a =
50. Now what is the output?
SB main zero zero
zero Y
zero now zero right
Z 50 zero
zero 50 back
50. Why 50?
Why did I ask you stand?
A memory created with 50 right? Uh where created here? A memory created with
Wrong
memory creatal
50 memory created with value 50
memory.
Sorry.
Because there is no variable shadowing.
You have to bring the previous class terminology. There is no variable shadowing. As per local preference,
compiler found this a as static variable. Then zero replace with what value? 50. It is not a variable
declaration. It is a variable assignment because variable assignment compiler
software JVM software searching for the variable declaration. Now first compiler
and JVM searching for variable inside static block not available found in the
class then it is considered as static variable then the existing value zero replace with 50.
All people understand now control come out of the static block come to main
method then the 50 gone
once you store value in the variable until the variable memory available that value is remained now
uh so here a reading what is the value you will get 50. So tell me the static
variable initialized inside static block can be read in main method. Yes, because
the value is remained in remained in variable forever. So what is output of
this program? SB main
and 50. Okay. Now, so what is the static block? A nameless block created inside a
class with just a static keyword is called static block. What the use of static block? Static block is used for
initializing static variable only once at the time of class loading into JVM.
Then what I have to write the code declare static variable in the class and initialize inside static block and read
after static block in main method or static method. Clear? What the flow of execution? Step number one static
variable memory created. Step number two, a variable initialization completed here with zero. Then static block in
static block SB message displayed 50 stored in the static variable available in the class level. Static block
execution completed control go to main method. In main method a value reading from static block are reading from
static variable in the static variable memory already 50 stored from static block the same value reading and print.
Okay. Now understanding if not understand ask don't hesitate.
Oh, if I ask you are asking return questions. Yeah, definitely I'll ask. If you ask me one question, I will ask you
return question. If I don't ask written question, where is your doubt? How do I understand? I should not explain again.
Same point again. I should answer to your doubt. I should clear your doubt. Where is the problem? Okay, that's why
definitely I'll ask a written question. So, but because I'm asking return question, if you stop asking, you are
the person facing the problem.
for
SB main 50 or zero. Now
50 50. In previous program I got 50. Now also
50. Uh in a variable chapter I told you very important point. You must clearly
differentiate is it a declaration or assignment. If it is a declaration, memory will be
there value stored. Assignment means memory not created searching for the variable. Previous program memory
declaration assignment. So static variable is accessed. Now this is
declaration data type equal to declaration that means variable shadowing is there. When
variable shadowing is there value is going into the static variable or store in the local variable.
What the output here? These are the written test questions.
Static block topic completed. What is static block? Why static block? How to
create static block? Sample program on static block. Execution flow of the static block. Five points. Five points.
Study block topic complete. Then what further topics we are trying to understand? Entry questions. What are
the possible different tricky points will be given? See whenever entry questions and if you only focus on one
topic no entry question. This topic is combined with the previous topic other
topics then that is called what intry question. So you whenever you see the question you have to find out what are
the different concepts are used in this example program. What are the rules I
have to remember and apply on this program then you'll get right answer. So when you see the previous program what
is the okay static block with the static variable static block accessing static
variable from static block and also accessing from main method. So what is the flow of execution? Then next
question when you see oh local variable variable shadowing is
developed uh the value 50 stored in the static variable or local variable and
this variable available after the main after the static block. No in static block this a is static local variable or
main static variable. Some students are thinking that uh
always they look above look above look above. They feel that
value
understand many students are following this is the flow right or wrong
not positive. This is what a means not this a. This a means which static. Then
how 50 coming? Because this 50 also refer to whom now? Same static. That clarity that clarity execution flow
should come to your mind. Now tell me here this a is this a? No. This a is
what? Static a. And here 50 stored in a which a static a no. Which locally?
So what is the memory diagram? Can you explain me?
Step number one, class loaded. Step number two, a variable memory created with value zero. Step number two, static
block. Yes s and then in a in a memory
should create where? In the static block. Store 50 in a 50. Control come
out of the static block. Local variable is destroyed. Go to main method. Main
then static zero.
People are feeling easy or difficult.
Very easy. Uh next
what is the output? Abishek
if you stop using your brain everything will be understood. If you come in my
flow everything understood. If you're adding extra masala you will get confusion.
I want to find output by your own and let me know okay I don't answer I don't
answer to your question you only find output for this question yourself let me know and tell me what is the output
a value 15 pingali mahgali
mah is given answer main 50
in written test exam these type of questions are prepared to sort it out these kind of mind people I keep on
saying that memory memory memory this a is not this a
you don't use your eyes zero
zero Sai Kumar
this a meaning what body? Search for a variable in main method not available.
Search in class not available. Huh?
Compiler throw error variable A cannot find symbol variable A. The variable
declared inside static block is not static variable. It is a local variable available only within the static block.
You cannot access from other methods. Compiler throw error in previous program. Here a no compile time error
because the variable is available at class. In the previous program there is no compile time error because a variable
available at class. In the previous program also there is no compile time error because a variable is available at
class. But now in this program we got compile time error because
variable not available in main method not available in the class.
Online students understood
still confusion.
So you should carefully practice static variable initialization with
variable shadowing without variable shadowing. Okay.
Now one more question.
Now what the output? SB main zero. Same program one more time
I have asked. Now there is no compile time because now the static variable appeared at class.
Now tell me
yes B main 60.
How many people your rise? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 How many people? 60.
Excellent.
Why 16?
Same
color. Same color.
parent
have the fear of failed the interview. Huh? You are casually looking at the
screen. Okay. 60 apply concept. What is that? A equal to
60 assignment to A which
there are two A are there? Static A and local A that six is stored
in which A. How it is available to main method? What the value?
If you are casually sitting silently looking at the screen then you will not pass in interview.
Apply the steps. Apply the flow by seeing ah 60h
50.
Uh the 60 is stored inside where local variable static variable modified or not
modified. Uh tell me how to solve this variable shadowing problem.
Huh? This data
it is static variable static context. In static context how
this will work? Class name. H now tell me
now what is the output
SB main 70 why 70
this is 60 stored in this is 70 stored in
uh tell me the memory diagram let me show you output
compile execute output is
uh 70. A value 70. Why 70? Because you show the difference between local
variable and class variable. And tell me the memory diagram.
Class is loaded. A variable memory created with zero.
Start block. Start block.
Uh inside a memory created with value 16.
60 stored in a 70 stored in a in examples.
Control come off. Then go inside main.
Yeah. Who's a class?
Yes sir.
This is how you are to find output. So finally what is the statement again I'm telling? Don't show your
follow the flow of execution. If you are not following the flow of execution casually look at the program and taking
output your answer will be wrong. See Java is such a easy subject and
easily you can clear the interview as long as you are not using your brain.
Once you start using your brain kum all answers are wrong and in interview your
wrong answer will be the first answer in the options in the list 1 2 3 four options. Okay be careful. Shall I try
one more example? Uh
what is
SB? What is this a here? 60 here. This A
refers to which A? Local A. What the output? 60. Uh,
compile. Execute.
SBA 60. Main 70. Uh, no. I want 70. What to do
in the stat block? I want 70. What to do? Access it by using class name. Now
output ESB 70 sorry 60 70 main.
Okay. Huh? Yes. So, static variable, static block, variable shadowing, initializing static
block by differentiating from static uh differentiating from local variable. All points are covered.
Now, generally will you initialize static variable from static block with a
hard-coded value or dynamic value? Dynamic value. So to initialize with the
dynamic value I have to read data from the keyboard. So I created scanner object. Tell me inside static block can
I create object? Yes. And next can I uh
can I read value from the keyboard? Yes. And stored in that various static variable? Yes. Value is stored in static
variable. And in the main method we will get the value stored from the keyboard. Control 1 compile.
control 2 now what the value 10 value stored in
static variable main a value is what 10 tell me is this 10 fixed always first
time loaded 10 now I'm executing again when I execute again class is loading into JVM second time now second time
loading means variable again second time memory allocated again asking for enter value second time
again is asking value this time I'm giving 15. A value is 15. So previous program first time load
17. Second time load also.
Third time also 70. Uh where are this program? First time 10.
Second time 20.
Third time 30 your wish. So generally we will
initialize static variable in static block with the dynamic initialization
law. So tell me all points are clear. First point what is a static variable?
Sorry what is a static block? A nameless block created inside a class with a just a static keyword in it declaration is
called static block. What the use of static block? It is used for initializing static variable and execute
some logic only once when class is loaded into JVM. What the syntax for
creating static block static open bracket closed bracket dash logic. We
can place any statement which is available in static method except return semicolon, return value semicolon and
throw statement without try catch.
Abishek
Java example I run. What happened here? This class example is loaded into JV.
Okay. Static variable memory allocated. Static block is executed. Static
variable initialized. Main method is executed.
Static variable red. Okay. Now what happen next?
Main method execution completed.
Uh what happen next? If main method execution completed means
JVM shutdown.
classes remove
static variable memory destroyed now.
If you run Java example again, what happened?
Can second here
here JVM started. Uh tell me can this when I run Java again second time again
second time JVM is started. Can this second JVM can bring the class which is
already dead. It will repeat the same process again.
understood. Abishek.
Everyone understood?
A class can contain how many students? One or multiple?
A class can contain how many static blocks? Multiple. How many static methods?
Multiple. How many static variables? Multiple. How many static blocks? Multiple. If a class has multiple static
blocks, are all static blocks are executed automatically by JVM? In which order?
In which order? Top to bottom. in the order they defined in the class.
SB1 SB2 main next
what the output first one then two now then three then
four then five digit alphabetical order
top to bottom creation order first you created SB2 so SB2 first executed
okay now yes is there any rule That static block I should write only at the beginning of
the class. Main method should write after all static blocks. Java, jigjug, snake,
anywhere you can write. You can write static block either after main method or
before main method anywhere. Then JVM software searching for static blocks top
to bottom from the class open bracket to class closed bracket. First step load
the class. Second step, search for the variables from top to bottom, open
bracket to closed bracket. Then again searching for open bracket to closed bracket for static blocks. And then
finally searching for main method. Uh tell me is there any change in the output? No. Same output. Yes. B2.
Understand? Yes. Next. Can I put one person body in your body?
Can I create static block inside a static block?
Can I create static block inside the static block? No. If it try to nest the static block then compiler throw error.
Why? Because static keyword is belongs to only class. It is meant for work for
the class not for the logic. So if you create static block inside a static block compiler will throw error illegal
start of expression. So finally we have understood so many
points on the static block related point. Let us try to quickly revise all points are comes under just four to five
points and there first point what is a static block. Second point
uh second point why static block. Third point syntax to create static block.
Fourth point, a sample program to create static block. Uh, fifth point, execution
flow of the static block. And the sixth point, a program to initialize static
variable in static block reading in main method. And next, initializing static
variable with variable shadowing. Initializing static variable in a static
block with variable shadowing by differentiating from local variable.
Initializing static variable with the dynamic values reading from the keyboard and next
multiple static blocks and their execution flow and next nesting static block all 10 points understand 10 or 11
points okay so these points all points I'll upload to your Google classroom hope you will practice at home and come
thank you that's all for today class tomorrow we will learn non-state block related points if you don't practice
staticy block non non-static block you cannot understand just copy paste with non-static variable same programs copy
paste remove static keyword non-static block will come okay thank you that's all for today
default constructor with other constructors That's not possible.

