ript


uh right good morning everyone last class we have completed uh summary
on all static members non-static members we have discussed up to now so today we
are trying to learn the most important entry questions if you learn these topics then any comp uh silly interview
or tough interview or tricky point, direct point, anything you can able to explain to the interviewer.
Okay. So take a
one second. I think yesterday few points are pending.
Once again, two three slides are pending from yesterday and we'll go for next.
Did you write non-static inner class up to non-static method only we have written right? Uh please write on
non-static inner
completed. Okay.
done. Okay. Uh now tell me we have 10 different types of members we
can create inside a class. Static variable non-static variable static
block non-static block static method uh no non-static block constructor then
static method non-static method okay then next main method uh no static class
non-static class what is the recommended structure with both static members and
non-static members so what is the order we have to place we don't place all static members first and then all
non-static members next. Generally in the program first we create fields next to fields we create blocks next to
blocks constructor first memory to initialize that memory blocks constructor to modify that memory setter
method to read values available in the memory getter method to perform different business operations
uh business logic methods the business logic methods are both static and non-static then following by main method
display method other static inner class non-stic inner class we like this. First
static variables and then non-static variables static block non-static block
constructors static methods non-static methods. Tell me this is static non-static methods are totally three
categories methods. Number one setter, getter and business logic. All three methods are developed by using static
methods and non-static methods. Then common method like display method. So this display method is a non-static
method which will display both static and non-static members. And then finally static class non-static class understand
one push dialog is there a concept missed what is that main
method is missed here right now if I don't write main method can I execute the class no now I have added main
method also did we write uh okay one second one more
point is Now tell me so when should we use static members when should we use non-static
members we got clarity then next if I create a class with all these 10 members what are the members automatically
executed have I written this already okay right
uh now static variable static block main method static variable static blocks are
main method automatically executed by JVM static method static in our class are executed only when we access uh Next
non-static variable, non-static block and constructor executed when object is created. Non-static method, non-static
inner classes are executed only when we call them by using object reference. Okay. Now class recommended structure is
this is the recommended structure. Now I'm adding main method also for executing them. Clear? Then now I have I
run this Java I mean I run this class by using Java command. Java bank account. What are the first step?
JVM started. Second step, class is loaded into JVM. First step,
JVM started. Second step, class is loaded into JVM. Third step, static variable. Fourth step,
static block. Uh, fifth step, static methods,
main method, main method. Uh next step
remaining members are executed based on whom you are calling. Okay. If you call
the member execute. If you create object the members are executed. Executed only when we call. So what the step number?
Step number one Java bank account. Step number two class is loaded. Step number three static variable static block main
method and then remaining members executed only when we call. All people understand right. Right now this last
Right.
Okay. Uh, next up is what? Running Java command site. Java bank account.
then Java bank account then control loading the class.
Next static variable.
Next a study block.
Next main method.
Remani members are executed. Only when we execute
Okay. Stop numbers. If you want, you can add 1 2 3 4 5 6
done. Okay. Now let me try to understand
the most important topic. Oh,
I'll show you some programs. I want you tell me output of that
program.
What is the output of this program?
Today class is what is the output? Okay, you are getting ready for interview
questions. What is the output? Today question is what is the output? Okay, now come on.
I don't want output. I want flow of execution.
Class is loaded. Second step static v static variable a memory
created. Next step a = 10. Next step
main method uh main execution start from main a value 10. Main execution n
control 1 compile.
Okay. Super. Okay. Are you able to see the memory here? This a reading value
from here or from the memory.
Now what is the output of this program? Prove that a variable executed before
main method. In this program you are accepted. You have accepted that the variable a memory created initialized
before main. I want to prove that. How can I prove? By printing SOP. And now can I take like this to print sop? Uh
tell me what is the output of this program. First class is loaded. Don't forget class is loaded. Without loading
class no memory is executed. Second step static in a a memory created with value
then a equal to m1. Uh
m1 method logic execution started what message printed then return? 10 stored in then main
method main method execution start a a value what a value
when you call a M1 again executed now uh people who are having a wrong thought
whenever I see a I should go here I should execute it in academics you have
learned whenever A is there go there and execute then you'll get wrong answer so
when you access a it is not going to the declaration line it is going to memory
memory and reading value from the memory already memory created already initialized already 10 stored so what
you'll get here only 10 so what is the total output SV is executed main execution start a
value 10 not SV executed again will not come and main execution And
okay SV executed main executed. So what is the point I want to prove? Static
variable memory allocated and initialized before main method itself. And when we access a variable static
variable declaration statement is not executed. static variable memory is accessed and the value available in the
memory will be read. That is the point I want you understand. Clear? Right. Next question.
What is the difference of previous program to this program? Previous program one static variable. Now this
program is uh tell me now when we have multiple static variables this entire
line at a time executed. No, first variable memory allocated
static int a static int b then a = 10 b = 20. Understand?
When you have multiple static variables and multiple non-static variables, the static non-static variables are executed
in s symbol.
Okay, this is then. Okay, now it is sleeping. Got a sleeping mailing. Okay,
so S is S symbol it is executed. It will not execute like this vertical
horizontal. It executed in S notation. Uh so tell me now what is the output of this program? First step static int A. A
memory created with value zero. Next static int B uh B variable memory
created with value zero. Next A = 10. 0 replace with 10. Next B = 20.
0 replace with 20. Then main method executed. 1 2 3 4 5. Uh here A read from
memor declaration of from the memory. be read from memory. What is the
important point in this program? First point I explained here static variable is first executed before main method.
Prove that for proving purpose I have written equal to m1. Then multiple static variables are there. What the
flow of execution? When I have multiple static variables first all static variables top to bottom all static
variables in memory allocated then initialization complete.
Accepted a Watching watchman's
watch woman's some watch women's also there 33%
reservation better than boys right okay so more watching watchman's today will
cry watchman's also will cry today okay again I'm telling today class is
not write a program today class is what is the output from below program in your
in your written test In your interview process what question first you will face what write a programmer what is
output from the given program first what is output from below program if you don't find what is the output
then again you cannot go to the next round in the next round write a program will be there so if you don't understand
answer today class then lifelong you never pass interview
what is output
If I have a static block and a main method. If you have static block and main method, which one executed first?
First static block. All static blocks. Static block one executed. Static block
to executed and main method is executed.
Okay. Now my question if a class contain
both static variable and static block and main method all three are there when static variable static blocks are
executed I'm not asking first second or third or
no when there are two stage three stages are there totally number one okay four
stages are there number one class loading number two after class loading number
three object created. Number four, after object create totally four stages are
there. Tell me now when static variable static blocks are executed
when a class loaded into JV main method
after a class loading is completed execution is started with main method. Okay. Now my question two people have
two people are having same priority then who will execute first whichever coming first that is executed
first. People are having different priority then high priority person should come first and less priority
person will come next. Static block and main method same priority or different priority. Different priority static
variable static block same priority or different priority. Same priority. Then who will execute first?
Whichever coming first that is executed. If static variable is available first, static variable executed. Static block
is available first. Wrong answer.
Think think static block is meant for initializing static variable. But static
variable if memory not there how it can initialize? If static block is first executed, how
static block can be initialized static variable? Which one executed first? Wrong answer.
Both are having same priority now. Then whichever come first that should execute first.
Huh? Correct. Come on. And why you confusing me? You told both
are having same priority. Correct. Both are having same priority. They are executed in the order they defined. But
the point here is same priority at what level? Memory creation level or
initialization level? Uh variable is having two parts here.
Number one memory number two initialization. So tell me static
variable initialization static block logic is having same
priority but static variable declaration is having first priority. So at the time
of class loading two activities are happening. Number one memory allocation.
Number two initialization static variable initialization is available in how many places? Two places. One at in
the variable declaration two inside the block in the variable initialization and
in the block then which one first executed whichever coming first that is executed.
Are you following my point? uh now again I'm repeating there are two points are there at the time of class loading we
have two stages number one memory allocation number two initialization
then which one is executed first memory allocated second
initialization then static variable initialization first executed static block first executed
in the order they come first executed in the order they come executed dead. Repeat once again. Don't confuse. This
is the confusion topic because you put your brain on confused. Don't use your brain.
First up is what? Class loading. After class loading what should happen?
Memory should be allocated. So memory allocation and complete line of only static India.
only static India after memory allocated then initialization. Now static variable
initialization available in how many places? Two places one in the variable declaration two inside static block and
tell me which one executed first. Which one coming first that is executed
and tell me the step numbers now? Step one class loaded. Step two static India. Step three
a = 10. Step four, static block. Step five, main method. A is reading from
memory, not from declaration, not from declaration from
the memory. What is the output of this program? SB main a value 10.
Uh okay. Ready for next question. This program is straight point. No confusion.
If you remember this point any confusion question coming any twist and turns are there least bother see if you know car
driving thoroughly the road is having many U-turns are there some hill you are climbing so many turning turning turning
is there deep curve will be there least bother because I know driving
no if you practice more car driving car driver nighttime daytime huge you know
uh cyclone time you will get any scared no silently Driving you know only one
thing tires are going nicely I will go if any skid is there brake apply brake also how to apply not faster touch leave
touch leave touch leave stop you know that you know that any driver there car
driving now person you should not apply the brake suddenly if you apply brake
suddenly at 150 km speedhadar will come
a with me so when you want to Stop your vehicle suddenly. You should not apply
the brake. Apply touch and leave. Again touch and leave. And next very important
when you apply the brake you should not hold the steering straight. You should keep on move like a snake.
Move up down up and down up and down. Then car will be controlled. If you leave the tires straight and apply the
what do you call brake it will not be stopped.
Understand? Future drivers. No car is going going going. Somebody is
coming in front of you or front person has suddenly apply the brake. Don't you apply the brake just like that. Turn the
mean use the steering slight slowly not completely.
Okay. Slowly steering you jigjack you move and then apply the brake leave.
Apply the brake leave. Apply the brake leave and stop. If this is the way your car will be controlled otherwise you go
and hit him because if you apply the brake without moving the steering left and right what happen? It is kid
answer. Okay. Now tell me future after Java
where you go real life you come entering into real life. So whatever the problems I face whatever I know everything I am
sharing to you interested people catch it and use it otherwise leave it. Now finally tell me this is the flow. Now if
you remember this flow uh next question easily you can answer
main match started up to now warm-up match. Okay, now next practice the main
match started. Now tell me what is the output of this pro?
I don't want output what printed output means flow of execution. Tell me step
number one. Okay, class loaded. Step number two,
static int a = 10.
Ah, static in B. Wow, super. First,
memory should be allocated. Step number one, class loaded. Step number two, memory allocated top to bottom. From the
class open bracket to class closed bracket you have to verify where all
static variables after all static variables memory allocated. Then
initialization initialization available in the static variable assignment and static block. Uh
then a equal to 10 static block b= 20
static block. Up to last we have to go up to end of
the class. After all verified then main method main method a a value coming from
declaration of memory memory you should have memory here and b value coming from
memory. So output finally coming what you see output SB1 SB2 main A 10 B 20
but how this output is coming the flow should be there in your brain so much
may prove it prove it first a equal to 10 then static block B equal to 20 then static block
okay assign the variables by method calls and now tell me what is the output of
this program what I have done what is the difference from previous program to this program
main method is coming here. Static variable static block are going down. Uh now tell me what is the output? Anywhere
you write, however you write, flow is step one,
step two, static variables memory with the default value. Step three, static
variable assignment and static blocks in the order they they appeared in the program top to bottom and next main
method. Come on. Step one class loaded. Step two static variable A. Step three
go down static into B class. Again come to beginning of the class.
Initialization A= 10 static block
B = 20 static blocker. Static variable assignment and static
block must execute in the order they appeared in the program. Who come first? Static block. Static block B equal to
20. And then main method. A value reading from memory. B value reading from
memory. Okay. Huh? Kam really
SB1, SB2, main A and B 20. Okay. Now,
now conclude. Order of execution of static member.
Static members execution flow. Right. Ready heading.
Static members execution flow.
Static members execution flow.
If we define a class
If we define a class
with all with all five static members.
If we define a class with all five static members,
they are executed in the below order.
They are executed in the below order.
What the order tell me? In the below order. In four steps. In
the below order in the four steps.
In the below order in the four steps. Step number one.
For the step number one when all these members are executed
when class is loaded into JV always you have to consider class loading. After class loading first step is what? Static
variable memory allocate. JVM allocates memory to all static variables in the
with the default values from top to bottom in the order they have declared class open bracket to class close
bracket. Second step initialization. Uh static variable initialization
initialization available how many places? Two places one declaration to
static block which one executed which come first. So static variable
assignment and static block logic are executed in the order they defined from
top to bottom. Finally main method is executed. Now tell me we have static
method and static inner class. When are they executed? only when we call static method and
static inner classes are executed only when we invoke. Okay. Right. Same
program on side execution flow steps.
minute later.
Now what is the output of this program? Java example. First static variable
static block static a= 10 b= 20 static block main method then m1 method is not
executed. Next if I change the variable place then any difference in the memory
allocation wise no class loaded class loaded static in A 10 static in B10 then
second step A equal to 10 next static block B= 20 B= 20 wrong static
block then main method B= 20 B= 20 then
main method M1 method is not execute okay now I want You write this program.
Tell me output of this program by your with step numbers flow of execution plus
output. Okay. Right. What is the output from below program?
Write
as it is side by side.
working or acting up. Acting
Uh what is the first step? Class loading. After class loading
uh place static in a in box a value zero.
Next place static in B in box B memory zero.
Next static indicy place in box and place zero.
Then top to bottom completed. We come to end of the class. No further static variables. Next again go to beginning of
the class. Next a equal to m1.
M1 stored. M1 store. M1 executed.
Uh fourth step m logic executed. What is the output?
SV col a value displayed a displayed.
A displayed SV col 10 return and store it in a zero replace with 10. Write down
as it is how I have written
Next up study block. Next up
B = M2. Same M2 go. SB2 B return 20
stored in B. I stop. I expected remaining points. You will complete. We also waiting here.
Next up M4. No M4 method is not executed. It is a
method. Next main method. No. Because still variable assignment not completed.
Then C equal to M3. Huh. SV3 C 30 that is stored in C variable.
Then static block. In static block output is SB2.
Now finally last up main
M4 executed or not executed. Why?
Because we didn't call it. Why M1 executed? Because we called. M2 executed because
we called. M3 executed because we have called. Okay. Now they'll ask a question.
You come into the class 5 minutes you listen going out drinking water after 5
minutes again coming again 5 minutes you're listening again going out drinking the water and coming blood okay
now will I allow you like that mad
uh what will you do you feel thirsty right uh then every five minutes he'll go out of the class and coming inside a
while will you bring the water bottle? Why are you bringing water bottle? Every five minutes going out and coming in.
It's a time-taking process. Similarly, observe this program. In this program,
program execution started from first line of the class to last line of the class. How many times it is turning
around first stop to bottom searching for static variables. Again coming to
begin again top to bottom searching for initialization static variable again
static block again coming beginning of the class and searching for main method. If the same flow if you give to JVM flow
of execution takes lot of time or not. Whatever I have explained it is a
combination of both compiler and JVM fastly to answer in the uh written test exam. But interviewer will ask a
question. Hey, we have common sense these many times top to bottom, top to bottom if it if it is rounding then
program execution is slow performance issue we will get. Then what the solution to this problem?
Compiler doing something for you. What compiler is doing something for
you? Compiler adding changes to the static members. When you create a class,
compilers after doing some changes to the class, it will not leave your class as as you
have written. It is doing some changes for fast execution. That is called compiler optimization. Code optimization
done by the compiler. Optimization and fast execution. Okay.
Listen when I'm explaining listen always you'll be in the past mode only.
Huh? much better. I forgot what it is.
Now tell me what compiler is doing. Compiler software first look at the code. What is the first class next? What
is the static variable? Static variable equal to assignment. Then compiler look at your face and school. Tumor fellow at
class level what is allowed? Only declarations. How the assignment is allowed? Assignment of the static
variable is responsibility of whom? Static block. Then where the static variable initialization must be
available in static block. How dare you to write the class level compiler? Look at your face and remove them.
So class level you are allowed to place only declaration assignments you are not
allowed but Java is allowing because compiler software will do behalf of you.
First compiler will move all static variables declarations to beginning of
the class. static int, static int b, static int c that three parts
declarations are taking and placing at the beginning of the class. Observe now this is our class static int a static
int b two variables only I have taken because space problem. Now compiler software top to bottom searching for
static variables create the class file create the class top to bottom searching for static variables and moving their
declaration to beginning of the class. Understood who is doing you are doing or
J compiler doing or JVM I'm doing compiler doing then why you are teaching me sir compiler doing now automatically
happen now I don't want you work like a automatic
person I want you become compiler and JVM when you see this program what are
the changes coming background you should know visualize then only you can pass written test exam what is the output
from below program otherwise for sec you will not understand Java, you cannot pass return test exam. So tell me top to
bottom compiler searching for static variables and moving at the beginning of the class. Uh second step
uh top to bottom again searching for static variable initialization. Static
block static block initialization. Tell me all this is a initialization only.
Initialization must be spread across the class should be there at one place and
should be inside static block. At end of the class, compiler software will generate one new static block and it is
moving all these four parts into that single static block. How many static blocks required? One static block
sufficient. Okay. But I am writing multiple static block. All static blocks are going inside. A equal to 10. First
static block. Static block cannot write inside a static block. Now that's why exclude static keyword. It will not take static
keyword. Only take what? Local block. It makes static block as a local block.
Then local block then b equal to 20. Are catch my point? Uh so what the step
number one all static variables declaration is moved from top to bottom to the
beginning of the class. Second step, static variable initialization and static block top to bottom moving into
single static block and places the static block end of the class. End of the class. Okay. And then between the
static variable declaration and static block remaining things will be go inside. What is that? Main method and M1
method. Okay. Static variable declaration first step. Static block and
static variable assignment second step. And then main method and M1 method third step.
Okay, clear my point. Third step is static block. Second step is moving into static block and place the static block
at end of the class and between fourth step main method and M1 method. Now tell me JVM coming to picture compilation is
completed. JVM coming to picture Java example. JVM running source code compile.
JVM run dot class file in dot class file static variable static blocks available jigsaw
place of proper order then JVM moving from top to bottom no at
the beginning of the class A stop number A variables found and then go end of the
class static block found executed zero replace with a sign block static block B
equal to 20 zero replace with 20 tell me now step number three C step
main method execute So tell me which one is is Java program execution slow faster? Who is making
fast? Uh developer making slow but compiler optimizing the code properly to order.
Okay, hope you all understand now. Write on this notes very important. Compiler
adding changes to static members. Why you didn't write in sequencer?
Comfort purpose. Why didn't you learn Java? While BTE
itself after B why you are learning Java? Because while learning B I should be
only focus on my education college certificate. After that thinking for what? Job sequence. Why study block at
last? Because to differentiate from methods and blocks.
Java people are saying Java is easy. If you want make Java is easy, you should
work as per your comfort. Now they should allow. Okay. Your wish. Your
wish. Your wish then later I will correct. Did you watch old movie
Krishna? If not go and watch today.
Okay. There is a old movie called Shanakan uh Bangladesh and Svi. Okay. Uh now
Bangladesh and S Dvi in forest they fell in a mud then they
wanted to buy clothes. They come to one of one showroom. Brahmanadandam is the
showroom owner there. Okay. Svi is you know throwing all the clothes inside
down. Then she'll say that Brahman is used to say dialogue I will do it I will
name so you developer like Savvi throwing all Java program concept
different different places compiler will say don't worry I will do it I will do it compiler is such a nice force
completed.
Want to write this program?
If you are interested, write down otherwise.
Pass complete. We need to go for non-study members.
First up, second step.
Third, fourth.
Next compile.class file created execution.
In execution simply we have three steps. First up, variables memory.
Second step, steady block.
Next. A value is stored. Next up, static B. Static block. B. Stop. A value store.
Static block. Static.
Okay. Our next main methods is
now the question will you follow this rearrangement in the interview room
Java file to doclass file then execute no
Indra why you are taking photos why you are taking
Huh?
Difficult to what diagram difficult to read? Then why you
taking photo? after taking photo how it become easy
and I'm sharing now in Google classroom no
who told
you written you didn't write notes and your notes also you don't Understand
there same diagram you written
sample class sample class in another page
why you written another page that is two classes of one class
I have written in two pages of one pager then why you written two pages and you
don't have that common sense
Okay. Why you are writing? This is one page. This is your notebook page. One
slide means one page. How I have written? Same way you should write.
uh don't follow this compiler changes in the doclass
file. Okay, you have to follow our four steps. What is the step number one? Class loaded. Step number two, static
variable memory. Step number three, variable memory. Step number four,
assignment. Step number five, static block. Step number six, static block. Seven B 8 main method. I would put this
if we enter your question are you top to bottom top to bottom no then smile no no
no no compiler will take care of rearranging this code and make the
program execution first currently I am combining both the compiler and JVM activities okay that point you have to
tell to interview now let's try to understand what next
wow super non-static members Execution flow
non-static members execution flow and tell me what is the difference between static members to non-static members
static keyword okay so static members are same five non-static members also five static
members five are executed in four steps Yeah. Non-static members also executed in for static members executed when
class loaded into JVM. Non-static members are executed when object is created. Static members are executed
only one time per the lifetime of the class because
class is loaded into JVM only one time. Non-static members are executed more than once for every time new object is
created. This is the first point you have to understand. Then flow of execution is what? same tell me when class is loaded
into JVM when object is created all static variables memory allocated with
the default values from top to bottom uh all non-static variables memory
allocated with the default values from top to bottom next
static variable assignment and static blocks are executed in the order they defined from top to bottom uh non-static
variables assignment and non-static blocks are executed in the order different from top to bottom. Uh next
main method executed and here which constructor inside class we have
only one main method string parameter string array parameter main method but inside a class how many constructors we
can have multiple then which constructor executed all constructors
which constructor default constructor invoked constructor if you call no param
no param string String param string param invoked constructor is executed observe no step number one when an
object is created don't write observe writing no when an object is
created JVM executes non-static members in the below order first JVM with the
help of new keyword it allocates memory to all non-static variables with the
default values in data they defined from top to bottom point waiting For next
point when a point you read, you have to visualize the code and memory. When
class when object is created which class object excellent example class object example
E1 equal to new example what happened? E1 memory created new example new
keyword will go to example class create the instance and top to bottom searching
for non-static variables int x= 10 into y = 20 complete line executed of only
int x into y int x into y collecting and coming to circle x memory y memory create with the
default value 0 0. Okay. Now next up
uh next step tell me after non-static variables memory allocated we have to
initialize uh initializing of non-static variables available in how many places?
three places. First stat non-static variable assignment. Second
non-static block. Third three places constructor also available. Then what is
the priority of all the three members not top to bottom? First non-static all
non-static variables assignment all non-static blocks executed then
constructor logic. Now after non-static variables memory
allocated like static variable static block directly we'll go non-static
variable non-static block no because new keyword job is what only
allocate memory then whose job is initialization constructor job that
means new keyword is called constructor then control will go into constructor
first in constructor this keyword is created
without knowing the information which object to initialize how the initialization can start. So who will
provide the information to initialize new keyword? How? With the help of what? This keyword. So first control will go
into constructor. This keyword memory created with reference what 10. 10. Tell
me x = 10 means is x= 10. This dotx= 10.
Uh y = 20 means this. Y= 20. Without
this keyword memory created and reference is not stored. X value cannot be accessed from object. Y value cannot
be accessed from object. So what is the second step? Directly start non-static variable initialization of constructor
column. Second step new keyword called constructor by passing the current
object reference stored in the this keyword in the constructor. That is the second step. Then third step constructor
logic executed a non-static variable. No super keyword
inside a constructor we have super call. Now first step first statement in the constructor is what? Super call. Second
step super call executed because there is no super class currently we are ignoring the super call now. Okay. Now
first step constructor call. Second step this keyword memory created. Third step
call is called executed. After super call now control go out of the constructor top to bottom searching for
non-static variable assignment and non-static block in the order they defined executed then control come back
to constructor constructor logic is executed. Oh my god.
Easy or difficult? D we are learning same point. Now I am placing them as a statement. D you done the same non-sty
block executed. Same. Now first control go to constructor. Then going out of the constructor non- stratey block executed.
Uh now what are the next step? Then JVM with the help of constructor it initializes all non-stratic variables
and executes all non-stratic blocks in the order they defined from top to bottom. Finally the invoked constructor
logic is executed. Non-stratic variable non-static non-static method and
non-static inner classes are executed only when we invoke. And now for example
small program I'm taking tell me what is the output
first step array first step word
class loaded without loading class uh class loaded. Next step.
Next step. X memory created.
Next step. X= 10. Next step. Constructor. Next step. Huh?
When non-static members are executed. Only when object is created. Without
creating object, non-static members are not executed. Wrong answer. Uh then where I can create object main method.
So first it is loaded. Searching for static variable. No. Searching for static block. No. Searching for main
method. No. Get out. Now compile JVM throw error. Main method. Not found.
Uh next. Now I created main method. Now non-static members executed. No. What is
the output? Main start main. And uh now let non-static members executed. Okay.
Object creatable
creation. Just here variable created and non-static variable, non-static block
constructor are not executed. And now change your mind. Now what is the meaning of object created? Just object
created. Object created means non-static variable memory allocation. Non-static
blocks execution, constructor execution, then object created. So background of
object creation, lot of story is there. Uh now food digested, digested into what? Lot of story is there. First you
have to prepare the food, then eat that food. And yum yum. Okay. Chew that food and convert it as water. Then swallow
it. Then stomach taking almost two hours of the time for crushing it and make
what do you call digesting it and converting into blood. So this much story there background uh same way
object creation means lot of story is there just object created not don't go to the next line and now new example
when you see example even example just by saying huh object created go to the next line at that client number lot of
members are executed background that connection must be there in your eyes and then new keyword create the instance
with reference 10 time go to example class allocate memory for non-static
variable with a default value then new keyword called constructor constructor
initialize x equal to 10 non-stant block then constructor logic finally output
coming back like that so this one line is doing lot of background work if you
don't realize that background work enter you fail wrong answer you will get
and now let us try to apply all points you have learned in this program I taken multiple non-static variables
multiple non-static blocks multiple constructors and now let Apply complete flow totally 30 steps are there. Ready?
Step number one. If you want to load class, first of all main method must be there. Main method
inside main method if you want execute non-static members we need object. Object object and only example even no
new example. Now class loaded first. After class loading
searching for static variables not there. Searching for static blocks not there. Searching for main method
available inside main method. First step example even not object creation
variable creation example even next step object creation in object creation first
step non-static new keyword memory created and next step
what new keyword will do new keyword create instance with 10 10 next step
new keyword takes the help of the class name and go to example class uh example
has top to bottom searching for uh int x int y both are provided memory
in the class in the instance. Next assert.
Next assert. New keyword come back to main method.
What to know? Currently who is executing? New keyword. New keyword left
the main method and went to the class beginning top to bottom memory allocated. New keyword job is completed.
You are faculty. I am faculty.
I am faculty. I am not asking questions. I am telling you. Okay.
New keyword is leaving main method. You ask the new keyword. New keyword. New keyword. Get out from the main method.
Go to the class example. Find top to bottom for non-static variables. Look at
there. New keyword leaving main method. Come to the class beginning. Top to bottom. Searching for X available block
constructor constructor block variable. Uh then top to bottom variable found. Allocate memory in the instance.
New keyword job is completed. The next job is what? Constructor job. Then new
keyword coming back to main method
control coming back to new key main method. Now the who? Now I have to ask
the constructor to execute. Who will ask? New keyword. New keyword invoke the
constructor. New keyword invoke. Call the constructor and say hello constructor.
Get up. Now get up from the sleep mode. Take this 10 object and initialize it.
Now control is going to where now? Constructor.
Uh in constructor this keyword created with reference tent
pointing to that object. Inside constructor what is the first statement? Super call. Not as
come on use your compiler eyes. What the first statement? Super call uh super call super call just currently demi
leaving. Next one is what? Non-static variable assignment non-static block
then non-static variable assignment zero replace with 10 non-static block SB1
then non-static block SB2 then y = 20
zero replace with 20 okay now then non-statt block nsb3 now
all non-static variable non-static block execution completed now control come back to constructor constru Constructor
logic executed NPC. After constructor execution completed control come back to main method. Now in main method new
keyword return the reference stored in E1 variable pointing to the object.
Understood? Totally how many steps? 15 16 steps are there? 17 steps are
there. Now 30 you told uh remaining 15 steps come in the inheritance chapter.
Understand? Right. Super keyword steps we didn't consider. Super keyboard again have 15 steps. So what is the most
important difference between static members execution and non-static members execution flow?
This only one step going into constructor is only the difference. Remaining all points are same. So hope
you will remember these points. Uh, write down this notes.
completed up.
Yeah, tomorrow we will write the notes for this program and flow of execution
and please practice and come. Tomorrow there are some important test cases are
there. Up to now we have learned only one class flow of execution. So tell me in company we will write only one class
as per project or multiple classes. So we should understand this flow of execution with two classes minimum.
Declare static members in one class access them in another class. What is the flow also we have to catch. Okay. If
you practice today class, tomorrow class will be easy. Thank you. That's all for today class.

