ript


Good morning everyone. Last class we completed static non-stratic members execution flow.
Uh and I gave assignments. Hope you all have worked on that. Yes sir.
Why in online some of the images are missed?
Give me 2 minutes.
Okay, tell me what is the output of this program?
SB 10. Uh example class first has to be loaded then a value will read and print
SB 10. Okay, next. So the flow is first class test class is loaded then snn here
example example class loaded static variable a a value zero zero replace with 10 static block then control come
back a a value reading and print next what is the output of this program
testb testm uh test class loaded first test
class loaded testb then test mm uh then example M2.
Now tell me only M2 method executed and come out. No here two members you are
accessing example and M2. First example class example class is loaded a variable
M1 method then return ex SV 10 10 stored
here. Then example ESB. Do you have any other variable? No. Is main method executed? No. control comma M2 M2 method
is displayed. Clear? Suppose if I write example a what happen
is example class again loaded? No. Static variable static blocks are again executed. No only a value read and
print. Okay. Now so this is very important. Final summary on static members execution close
allocates memory to all static variables. execute all static members assignment static block then executes
the invoked member either executes main method or read static variable value or
execute static block value. So this is the final conclusion on static non-static members combination execution
why it's missed in your batch
so yesterday many people has found output and sent messages to me saying that output found output found full
excitement so I'm very happy for that people work out.
Okay. And now let me start the next chapter.
Most waiting chapter object oriented programming principles
sorry exit. Yeah. most waiting topic for many
days.
No, your uh generation people don't have
announcements in your villages. In our age, we have announcement in our villages. When movie changed, one
announcement will come in the villages. Okay.
Okay. 19. Okay.
19 19
what the topics we have to learn as part of object oriented programming principles.
Okay. One topic is there actually let me complete it and then go for this topic. Okay. One second. It's a very important
topic from interview. Naru principles. This is compile time
error illegal forward reference.
Okay. Illegal forward reference and runtime error.
Stack overflow error.
Okay, there are two problems are there in execution flow. Illegal IFR means
illegal forward
reference.
The next s means
stack overflow error.
Stack overflow error.
Correct. Okay. So what is illegal forward
reference? Tell me what is illegal forward reference?
You are accessing illegal H. Wonderful.
When you are accessing illegal before forward means what? something not hap not happen you are
doing it that is called forward illegal forward reference look at program you'll
understand here I am accessing static var I created static variable before
main method after main method accessing in main method this a variable I am
accessing after its declaration and the b variable I'm accessing after
declaration or before declaration B variable B variable I'm accessing
after declaration or before declaration
you know English before after meaning before means
declare here we declare here we are accessing that is before after
one I am accessing B variable
before it's a declaration after a declaration.
Everyone tell me we created a variable line number 12. I
am accessing at line number eight. From the declaration point of view accessing
is before or after. Previous line is called before. Next line is called what? After one. I am
super talent English. You are a double talent.
Okay. Now I'm going to write something like this. I have created a main method.
Before main method I have declared static variable. After main method I declare static variable. Then now tell
me this variable B is accessed before its declaration. Any error or no error?
No error. Compiled successfully and executed successfully.
we will get output a value 10 b value 20 why
uh the execution order if you apply you will get clarity now tell me what is output first a memory created zero b
memory created zero a = 10 b = 20
then main method executed listen accept remember apply Listen,
accept. Remember, apply. Is main method executing before variable
initialization? After variable initialization. By the time main method execution
started, both static variables are initialized or not. What is the a value here? What is the a value here? 20.
You are eating food after fully prepared. Are you getting
clear food or any uh wrong food? Completely prepared food is ready. Fully
made food is ready to eat. Can you eat? Yes. Half cooked food. Can you eat then?
If you try to eat half cooked food, your mother will beat you saying tarry fellow half only cooked weight. Now if you eat,
are you getting correct food or wrong food? Wrong food. Uh now observe
apply example until compiler not compile.
If compile what is output
from SB A uh
error no error first. Super. Now what is the output? Tell me the flow. Tell me the flow of
execution static int a memory created with value
zero. Can you see that? A memory created with value zero. Second
step static in B memory created with value
zero. Then A not static A already static exeutor.
Why are executing again? uh a = 10 A = 10 semicolon A= 10 semicolon
semicolon also executed a = 10 semicolon variable zero replace with pen that mean
this a variable is fully executed now nice then next
from standing block a value 10 b value B value B value
Fully cooked, half cooked. Then why you are eating half cooked food?
Fully cooked, half cooked, half cooked, half cooked food. If you eat taste is
there or not there, not there. Then your stomach get upset, you will be in hospital, problem will come or not.
Yes or no? Then are you allowed to eat or not allowed? If you try to eat, what
happen?
Mother will beat you. Who is your mother here? Compiler.
So zero is there now. Zero is there. But that is half cooked food.
Okay. In childhood, did he eat slate pencils? taste.
Okay. Did you try? Never. Now you try. Go to one book, buy and then eat.
Wonderful taste will there. Okay. And tell me there are many kids are eating what? Slate pencils. Okay. Uh now if you
eat slate pencil, teacher is found, teacher found you are eating slate pencil, then immediately she's punishing
you. No. uh compiler found you are eating slit pencil before initializing
the B variable before completing B variable initialization you are eating
it so compiler will throw error so tell me what is illegal forward reference
if you access static variable before it's a declaration in static block we
are reading the value of that variable before initialization that is a wrong approach That's why compiler throwing
error. No sir, it has a value already. Now you told me that if you want access variable, variable memory should be
declaration should be there. Memory should be there, value should be there. All three are satisfied. Then why
compiler not allowing? Compiler have a confusion here. Compiler
not throwing error, variable might not have been initialized. If a variable doesn't have value, compiler might have
thrown error. Compiler doesn't throw error. Variable might not have been initialized. What variable throwing
error? Illegal forward reference. Then by throwing this error compiler is
telling tell me when you eat slate pencil is teacher immediately beating you? No. Teacher warning you. Nana they
go. If you eat slate pencil then in your stomach it cannot be digested and then
finally will get stomach pain surgery has to be done. Okay. Huh that's why don't eat
by giving this error message compiler warning you if you read B here you will
get the default value zero you will get value but it is a default
value it is illegal forward reference you are referencing B forward means
before value storing only do you know here you don't get value 20 you will get
value zero do you know it or You are HK product. You know
I follow my point. Same question you show to your host limits and ask what is the output? People say 20. Why? Because
20 there. Now B and 20 everybody in the market in the software industry variable
access what is the value? Variable access what is the value? Read that value. But at the time of reading
execution time the value 200 now people don't know. If compiler don't throw the
error here all developers are feeling that the value 20 is coming with the 20 calculation done finally they are
getting right results or wrong results wrong results programmer doing calculation with the 20 JVM doing
calculation with zero then programmer result JVM results are different so 100%
listen carefully my word because 100% here you will get the value zero
compiler throwing error illegal forward reference tell me your HK product you
know zero will come do you remember I told you static members execution flow
static int equal to 10 not executed first static int then static inb then
only has a chance to execute a equal to 10 then static block then b equal to 20
I able to prove that stat assignment and block execution order but I couldn't prove that variable memory creation
order a then b then on a equal to 10 how can I prove with this illegal forward
reference compile time error I can prove I want to read the default value available in the variable what I want to
read the default value available in the variable I want to read default value available in the variable look at here
I want tell to compiler compiler I know default value is coming here you don't
show your talent re let Let me please allow me to read the default value. How
can I tell to compiler? By using the class name. If you write directly B,
compiler will not attach a class name and throw error by saying that Babu illegal for reference default value
zero. You are getting here. Is it okay for you? Yes. Yes, I am okay. I want default value. Then how can I tell to
compiler compiler that I am okay? I want read default value by using class name.
Uh if it is a static variable by using class name. If it is a non-static variable by using this dot this dot if
you replace static with non-static then here what I should use here this dot I
have to use okay control one no compile time error by writing class name I am
tell to comp I told to compiler I want default value to read then you will get successfully the default value zero. So
if inter ask a question prove the static variable execution order first static variable memory created with the default
value right declare the variable after static block read it in the static block by using class name you will get default
everyone understand got clarity right illegal forward reference compile time
error illegal forward reference
If we access
static variable for reading its value. If we access static variable
for reading its value
before it's a declaration.
If you access static variable before it's a declaration for reading its value
any order. Okay. If I access static variable before its declaration for reading its
value either from either from static block
can you please do one small correction. If I access static variable before its declaration
for reading its value,
if we access static variable directly by its name,
please add this one is very important. directly by its name. If I access static variable directly by
its name before its declaration
for reading its value
can you write like this English somewhere I'm missing it before it's a declaration
if You don't change it. You don't change. Okay. Just for future
purpose. I'm just correcting before it's a declaration. If you access static variable directly by its name for
for reading its value either from can I write like this?
Is it correct? either
from static block or from static variable assignment
from static block or from static variable
assignment. It leads to compile time error. Illegal forward reference. Right?
At least to compile time error. Illegal forward reference.
I want to highlight this point before it's a declaration hourly. If you access
static variable directly by its name this also important by its name.
Next point by throwing this error compiler informing us we will get static
variables default value but not the but not its actual value.
Then it leads to wrong results. To solve this error and to read defea
value available in the static variable, we must access static variable by using
class name as
Write
down program.
write that program and draw a memory diagram.
completed memory diagram able to write. Okay. Now
I wanted to show you one more question.
Look at this code.
This is second program already answered. What is the output of this program?
Error.
Error. No error. Why error?
B equal to 50. Data type is not there.
Huh. Data type is not there. That's why
error. Huh?
Come on. Come on.
Read a point again. Read your notes.
Read read your notes.
What is that? When will it get compile error?
before its declaration. If you read static variable directly by
its name, directly by its name, compile time error
read properly. Directly by its name
for for reading.
Underline reading. Underline reading.
Uh so tell me error is for reading not for writing. Any error? No
error. No error. Compile successfully. Uh what is the output?
There is no compile time error. Compile successfully from SB 10.
from main method 10.
20 or 50
I assigned now. Uh here 50 is stored in B which be local
B is a local variable static block. This B is static variable.
This B is a static variable. But why I'm not getting 50 here? Uh
after static block B variable is executed with value existing 50 replace
with 20. Understood? Clear? Uh write on down
after this program after this program down.
This rule is only for This rule is
only for what?
Reading but not for right.
It means for
assigning new value.
We can access
static variable
directly by its name.
completed now.
I want to write this program and draw memory.
Draw memory. If you have any confusion in writing memory, let me know.
completed uh down right questions. Okay. First you see output then we write
question. Now tell me if I write like this what is out
50 20
B value B value option one 50 option two 20 option three
zero zero
why Zero is correct answer. Y Z
static into A static into B
then A = 10 static block
B = 50 here zero there is no confir confusion
I'm asking about main method here main method 50 is zero now this B
equal to P store it in the B memory only. Then after this line static block
completed control come back here B semicolon executed in B semicolon. Is
there any value or no value? Then zero stored.
Zero stored or not stored. If no value existing value remain as it is. Many
people are feeling zero wrong answer. 20 wrong answer. What the right answer? 50
they call control 1. Compile
control 2.
Okay. What is the output? B value zero. Okay. And here B value 50.
Hope you understand now. Any confusion? No sir. Write down question. case one I mean in
this uh nonitrite program again here only down you right note in above
program
remove
the above program remove b =0
remove b =0 0 in the above program. Sorry, B = 20. In
the above program, remove B = 20,
find the output.
Find the output.
Okay. Uh what the output in main method B value 50.
Output in main method B value 50.
In a main method B value is 50.
Should I explain the memory? Everyone understood. Okay. Shall I ask one more question?
What is the output?
Zero here. 50 20 store 10 20
compile.
Write
down case number two in a main method.
Sorry. In a static block.
In a static block.
After
b= 50.
After b= 50. Place s o l and b.
Place S O LN B
S O LN B comma find output.
Uh what is the output? Compile time error ifr.
Why? Because
variable is not
because because variable is not initialized
because variable is not at initialized in its declaration. variable is not at initialized in its
declaration. at and y at variable is not yet
initialized in its declaration here in the declaration
understood very important B don't consider this B
you have to consider until B declaration part initialization not completed you
cannot read variable value directly by its name okay next case number Three.
Case number three. Place example.b.
Place example.b. Case number three. Place example.b.
Uh what is output? Error. No error. No error. Output is now
50. Right on. Output is 50.
output is 50. So final conclusion is write down side until conclusion until
static variable initialization
until static variable initialization in
it's a declaration statement
until Stratic variable initialization in its declaration statement
is not completed.
Comma. It means it means
until until semicolon
execution is not completed.
We cannot read. We cannot read
static variable value
directly by its
static variable directly by its name.
We cannot read static variable directly by its name, comma. It leads to
it leads to iffr.
It leads to iffr. Uh look at this code. Write down this program in notes. What
is the output from below pro? Write down write down what is the output from the below pro.
What is the output from below program?
First point what you are accessing static variable before
it's a declaration in static block for reading for for
reading value allowed or not allowed compiler throw error after assignment
you are reading allowed or not allowed.
Allowed allowed or not allowed? Why not allowed
in the declaration? Initialization is not completed. There is no initialization.
When there is no initialization, no need to consider
what I told initialization means not only storing value in the declaration
semicolon has to be executed semicolon has to be executed that's what
I'm saying what I told today class to answer any question listen
accept remember apply if you show your talent
Okay, that is designed like that you have to follow when I switch on fan rotator to clockwise. Why clockwise? Why
not anticlockwise? Anticlockwise if you run you will also go up. Okay. Now
clockwise it will come down. Anticlockwise it will go up. Which side you want air down side. So this rule is
designed you have to accept and follow. No sir I don't accept. I will confuse.
So now tell me two compile errors we will get. Line number six. Line number nine. Now
tell me how to solve this error. You have to access both sides variables
as what? Class name dot class name dot uh comment them two lines. Comment this
comment this down in the gap. You write class name dotcl class name dot
the flow of execution tell me step number one static in A
step number two static in B with a semicolon or without semicolon
without semicolon semicolon always executed at part of initialization.
Uh next a = 10 then static block
then a example.b no problem. Uh next one is what? B here when you access
semicolon is not execution not completed. Semicolon execution not
completed. That's why we'll get what compile timer brain. Okay. Semicolon execution not
completed. So it leads to compile time error. Okay. If I write class name dot no problem.
Okay. Got clarity. Understand? I accepted.
Accept. Automatically you will understand. Abishek. No means what you not got that
you will never get. I know. I don't want spend time for you.
Okay. Until semicolon execution not completed, you cannot read variable directly by its
name. If you try, compiler will throw error. Okay. So, what the solution to
this code? You have to access by using classes.
Now understood why? How you understood? Now previously also you were Abishek. Now also Abishek. Huh?
Where is the difference?
What is sir? Uh write down this code and tell me what
is output from below program.
What is the output from below program? Write down and tell me. Don't see.
Write down until
you know before corona and I mean if I
told you the past history you may feel you know I'm promote I mean I'm boosting myself promoting myself but you should
know the when I in 2004 when I come to Hyderabad
for MCA project to buy okay and that time I was there in the
class that time already I know Java just when I watching what the amit paid faculties are explaining Java I was
fully disappointed in my college my lecturer explain better than these faculties and hundreds of
people are there in the class all are you know watching and clapping super bumpers
what he is teaching all are whatever they in complete reference textbook everything as it is they are just
copying including values also so I not satisfied then I go and ask my core job
faculty hello already I know all these points which are there in a complete reference texture book you explain the
same points no problem but why not touching these points with the project because after your batch I have to go to
interview and then I have to go to company to develop the project. Cover interview questions also cover project
related scenarios. He smiled at me and told in advanced Java it will be
covered. Okay. Then I was waiting for the course complete 45 days completed then eagerly
waiting for advanc because I am waiting for what entry questions and project.
Then he also teaching same whatever there in the textbook another textbook they have chosen that is head for
cirates and JSP. There is another book called head first serlet and JSP in the textbook what is
there as it is explaining various entry questions various project scenario again I went and asked that
faculty he also told me wonderful statement in Java E in J2 next course
now for you frameworks that time we don't have frameworks we have J2E course in a J2E course faculty will teach
okay and I understood that this will not teach. Then in J2E also I join in a J2E
the faculty is teaching another book is there mastering EJ. What the textbook mastery EJ in the
textbook whatever the same thing explained. Then I went and asked the faculty hello sir you are just teaching
the book examples but I want project scenarios in in questions because I have
to face injury after your class. I have to face the project in the company. I
have to understand project scenarios. Then he gave me wonderful answer. In amirate you don't learn project
scenarios. You will learn only in the company. Okay. Then I stop attending classes
because I can study book and I can buy one good laptop and I can study books. Why I have to go unnecessary all the
ways? Then I search for the job. What job?
Faculty job. because I wanted to earn money part-time job then in the same institute where I have found the
faculties are not good there only I found the job and they gave me job
then I ask a question myself why students to come to my class
there are legendary faculties very senior most experienced faculties are there in the market at that time you
know now the students are l less strength is there in the classrooms because of students are attending online. Then I have asked myself a
question why students should come to my class. There is a gap between training and
company. If I fill that gap then all senior experienced faculties will be out
from the market. That is where I changed the curriculum. I started introducing
curriculum. Every chapter end entry questions asking from this
When I'm talking if you talk that is called bad manners worst manners
okay he's asking doubter you are asking doubter
he asked the doubt right never explain to him he's such a lazy fellow
okay now he's such a lazy fellow he never listen the class initially he sit
here and he move to inside the row Okay. So after class you explain in the class
if you ask you tell him after class I'll explain. Clear. Uh try to avoid sitting
next to him. Uh now come to the point. So I started preparing the curriculum.
That time Google was also not there. Okay. This much heavy websites and Java support is not there. 2004. Okay. I
every chapter programs I'll compile in the system I found compile time error
from this compile time error I started analyzing then I started questioning myself if I write like this what
happened if I write like that what happen if I write like this what happened then I keep on modifying the
code around one point every time when compiler giving the error I will start understand compiler
feelings oh compiler is throwing this error and telling to me Are hurry if you
write like this this is error because of this and I started understanding the flow of execution with JVM JVM showing
output now why this output is coming when I see the program I'll start analyzing myself I don't ask JVM give me
output first I will run the program and see the I mean first I will run program by myself 1 2 3 4 5 6 oh this is the my
output let me check with the JVM what is output JVM giving another output
then I don't get disappointed I used to tell oh my flow is wrong. So JVM is
giving another flow. What is that flow? Let me analyze. Okay, first step, second step. If I keep moving the statements
here, there there here then definitely I'll find the flow of execution. So I
told you in the hello world application if you do experiment minimum 30 errors you will get that 30 errors flow. If you
started applying on the every program by today you no need to take my help you can start working yourself. So every
topic I will take write one small program simple program first I will write and started making it complex and
complicated so that I can talk to compiler I can talk to JVM I can find the flow of execution in that process I
found this error illegal forward reference then I started explaining illegal forward reference in the class
people who are learning SEJP special course the time there are some faculties
are there in Amir who take the classes for SJP specially SJP means certified
Java programmer so regular core Java core Java advanced topic is SJP exam I
used to cover both core Java and SCJP as a single course because I'm not money minded I'm service oriented so if you if
you learn core Java heading you are learning on that heading like this two to three extra programs if you learn
SCJP is completed for that again why you have to pay extra 5,000 rupees that's what my intention I talked to the
management. Management initially told no don't cover together. You will separate plan. We will separate course. Then I
make the course failed. Understand her.
Koreava sea both together I want to teach because I don't want more money take from your pocket. Then management
not here another institute. Management told no we will generate more money. You teach core java as a core java. SJP as
SCJP. Okay. I should not oppose management now. Okay, I will teach. Then what I did? SJP course batch announced.
Good number of students came. I taught in a worst way. Why? If I make it
successful then the management will announce two batches. I don't like I don't want to take money because whatever I teach in Korea, same thing I
have to teach in SJP extra two three cases I have to teach. Why should I take money from you? So I don't want here
because I come from the poor family background. I don't want most of the students coming to Amir P are poor
family only. I don't want make more money. So I make that batch fail but management still you know fighting one
more batch announced for that batch also make it fail. Then finally they decided
SJP separately no and they told me take core Java SA both together. Thank you.
Then the batch batch heading changed as core Java with SJP and JVM architecture
release in the market. Then by seeing me and I got huge success in the market.
Core Java students talking to other core Java student my students talking to other batches then other students unable
to reach my level and moreover day by day by day batch by batch strength is increasing in the class and the people
who are teaching SJP as a original batch they also change the batch course name as core Java with SCJP.
Okay. Still I am teaching Korea with SCJP using JDM architecture. they're
unable to reach my level. Then finally their students are also asking Harris
are teaching JVM architecture why you are not teaching JVM architecture. Then they introduce JVM architecture as a
last chapter around 30 40 chapter before completing the course. But I will teach
JVM architecture in the middle. Actually my this methods after methods completed only I should teach JVM architecture but
later on realized that students are not digesting the JVM architecture. So that's why little I push the chapter to
the next level. Okay. Uh now people who completed SCJP they used to come to Nar
as a lab coordinator as a mentors. I used to interview them. I used to ask this question. Tell me what is the
output of this program? They are certified got the SCJP certification
also. Still they don't know this question. They used to look at me and answer what is this question? Are you
certified now? Yes. But still you don't know this what your faculty taught, what you practiced.
So what I am trying to tell you I have asked a question by myself why should
student choose me as a faculty then I found my different syllabus and
prepare my own path and prepared the bridge between training to company then I have shown the difference in the
training slowly my next generation faculties all adopted me and started teaching the same but not this much
heavy level because they have time constraint I don't have time constraint but they have time constraint these 10 days only should complete. So that's why
they have time constraint only main point they extracted and teaching to the students. Okay. Now my question to you
why should interviewer select you in the interview room for the job. If that question come to you then you will go
for next level. I gave you knowledge definitely interview will pass. But from your batch
two students come to the interview only one job is there to whom the interviewer should give.
You ask a question yourself. Why should inter give me job? Why should interviewer select me? That means I
should have skills better than the other candidates. Now olden days what phone ads are there
especially cricket time jujus are there? White color juujus. Uh among these white color juicer
red color that is you. There are many candidates are coming to
interview. Then why company interviewer should select you? You should have some
extra qualities. communication skills, presentation skills, analyzation skills,
understanding the given question in a right approach and writing the code.
How can I get that that skills? When I'm giving the questions, if you analyze
yourself, okay, what compiler thinking here? What JDM thinking here? Then what
is the output? You can find then one question will be given nothing but client will give the requirement. This
requirement how to divide into the parts and how to connect the parts how to write the code that analyzation also
your mind should get. So your communication which communication English communication or Java English
communication Java vocabulary divide a big program
reading big program dividing the program into parts develop each part as a separate class and connect the classes
that is what you have to learn. That is where you will be separated from other crowd people. So a big crowd will
come to the interview. Among the entire crowd, if you want to be specially highlighted, you should have your own
efforts to put to analyze the subject. Communication skills, presentation skills, implementation skills, analyzing
and solving the question. Five skills you have to improve by today by completing these questions. Now finally
you are come to a stage of analyzing the given question realizing the flow of
execution visualizing the memory diagram and finding the correct output and even
explanation skills also you got now you have to polish your the Java explanation
skills with more points so I am the first faculty in Amir market
I don't am in the entire world taught Core Java with SEJP and JVM
architecture. Go to Google and type Core Java with SJP and JVM architecture. You
will get only my books in the Google. You won't find any other website, any other YouTube videos, nothing. Only my
book will come directly. So I'm the first person introduced in Amirate market and of course it spread entire
world. Okay. So slowly slowly other faculties also implemented same. They
adopted my teaching style and the same thing they are also teaching and there are old batch students are there who got
job in college. They taught the same thing in the college and the college lecturers other Java trainers Hword and
students got impressed and they used to used to get best faculty award every year. They used to send that images to
me. Okay. I want you also have your own unique style of learning. I have shared
it to you. All people are now at same stage. All people are at same level. All people are go to interview. Then in
interview who will be selected? How many jobs are there? Three four jobs are there. For these three four jobs why
only you? You should be selected. You should have some extra qualities than your batchments. That is where you have
to now start work improve yourself. How can I improve? I told the websites
codingbad.com prepinstar.com and one more website I told hacker rank here
you should start answering the questions next end of the course completed I will
tell you one more batch sorry one more website where your data structures knowledge can be improved as of now you
should not follow this website it's a confusion okay you have to follow these three websites chapter wise once the
chapter completed this chapter Otherwise all questions you must able to solve. So that is where okay once you solve the
question if inter ask a question explain this program how you write the code explain it you must able to explain
first I created this class because of this reason in this class I created this variable because of this reason I
created this method because of this reason I created this condition because of this reason this condition generating
this result then I'm going to work going to write the further condition like this so you should able to speak in Java
English flu and clean. You should not say uh uh
okay not that sounds should not come okay and if you want to pass somewhere
how to pass if you want resume again how to resume and you should use some connector words between well let me
consider suppose okay for example these are the you know connector words these
connector words also you should start use for that how many more articles you
read how many more Java books you read you know that much more knowledge you will You know only for kjava how many books
you read? No you know yesterday Sunday now my wife was calling me
how many days you will carry these books 20 years of experience you got one bedroom shelf completely my books are
there when we are shifting from old house to this house half of the books we
sold out and the remaining half books still I am carrying because they are very much valuable you search for these
books and now there is a problem you know chhattalu will get if you maintain old books you know cupboards will get
you one chal we call in Hindi pesticides pesticide
pest pest pest you will get okay so that pest you will get and cupboards will be spoiled old days we have cement
cupboards but now it's a wooden cupboards so now dish is scolding me but I didn't throw them out okay so that
much work I done for improving my knowledge my vocabulary in Java so if you also if you work like that then
there will be a difference you start working This week, this week onwards
along with me, you should also work yourself to improve your knowledge. Uh
if I today I taught you illegal forward reference some test cases I give. What you have to do? Go to Google search with
the heading with the heading. What heading? I taught with that heading illegal forward reference in Java. See
that how many examples you get? Are you able to solve all the examples or not? Tomorrow if I teach okay next I'm
teaching stack workflow error. Go to Google and search stack workflow error entry questions heading just take my
heading what I am giving that the heading you search you'll find so many questions you have to solve the questions under that website only one
website or multiple websites first website completed second website third website fourth website minimum
five websites per day you have to solve the questions entry questions you have to say search for entry question search
for MCQ question search for scenario based question search for project Project test cases like different
different search for what do you call five years of experience on this topic different tax you attach illegal forward
reference entry questions illegal forward reference MCQ questions illegal forward scenario based questions like
that different tax you attach and find the questions and I recommend you in
your system save that article links you can copy link now save the article links
in your edit plus one file you create and save it so that in future if you want to refer again you can open and
refer because Google will not bring always with the search Google will not always bring the same website sometimes
you'll miss that website that's why when you find this website articles are good then copy paste the link in your in your
bookmark or just bookmark it in the in the browser you can bookmark now bookmark it and if you can revisit again
that website clear hope this suggestion will work out for you. Okay. Find out
what is the error? Uh is there an error or no error? There is a error. Which line?
Line number five. Uh D is the error. Why error? Uh what is the compile time
error? If I read a static variable before its declaration
directly by its name either from static block or from static
variable assignment we will get compile number up to now the test cases are on static block. Now the test cases are on
static variable static variable test case. Uh now tell me here I am trying to
access static variable D before its declaration before semicolon completed
from the other static variable 100% I'll get here value zero then compiler
throwing error illegal forward reference. Now how to
solve this compile time error by accessing with a class name.
So try to be a unique person. Okay. People has to identify that you are
unique. Some special specialtity there in you. If you blindly just you know like all people are you are working then
there is no use of you. I can find the candidate anywhere. Now tell me in a
company in every company every year some employees will be removed and new employees will be taken. Tell me every
year rainy season is there. Old water is removed and new water is adding. Now
company is also same. Existing employees will be removed. New employees will be added. If company decided to remove you
from the company, if company management decided to terminate employees, your name should not be in the first in
the list. Understand? uh suppose if I decided to resign then
your management should ask you why are you resigning don't resign what what facilities he want tell me I'm going to
provide you that facilities when you say I'm resigning if the management ask you thank you so much get
out from here we are waiting for that situation when you when you are going to go so should
not be like that okay when you get job and in company also you should show some difference from other employees. Entire
company should depend on you. That way you have to work. That way you have to improve your skills. Okay, remember
that. Uh now tell me next question I'm asking. Let's see how many people can answer. Okay, how to solve this error?
By giving class name. If I give class name, no error. What is the output?
What is the output? A value 10, B value 10, C value zero, D value for
write down there down we cannot access
where writing side now side of this line
we cannot access can you do like this
arrow mark to Here we cannot access static variable
before it's a declaration
from the static variable.
run the static variable assignment
from the static variable assignment
because it initialization note because its initialization
is not at completed.
because its initialization is not at complete. Okay, done. Uh now final conclusion. Why
compiler throwing error? When compiler throws error if a static variable
returns its value 100% default value. Again repeating if a static variable
returns its value 100% default value then compiler will throw
error. Right? The conclusion. Conclusion. Conclusion.
If static variable
returns 100%
default value, if static variable returns 100% default
value,
then compiler throws
Then compiler throws error. Then compiler throws error.
Can you look at this program? Why there is a error in static block and why there is no error in the main
method? Try to use this sentence. Now you have
written new point. Try to read that sentence and apply. In static block 100%
B returns default value. 100% returns default value. Uh now in main method it
returns assigned value. That's why now there is there is a compile time error and no compile time error. Understand?
Uh now next point try to think here error no error
where is error where is no error static block error static method
in static method also I'm accessing B variable before it declaration
We have not called. So what? Okay. When you call error or no error,
why no error?
Main M1 method you call from main method. Always. Always you call from main method. Can
you call from static blocks? Uh if you call in static block then error
correct correct if you call M1 method from static block error. If you call M1
method from main method no error. Correct. And 100% you are getting
default value. There is a chance we'll get the assigned value also.
Read the read the point. If static variable 100% returns a
default value then compiler throw error. If there is a chance write on
continuation. If there is a chance we can get
if there is a chance we can get
assigned value. Then
compiler doesn't throw error.
M explain J sir you only explain M1 method inside M1
method I read B in one case we will get zero in one case we will get assigned
cut error you keep aside now we have to decide error will come or not right uh
now in one case we will get zero in one case we will get assigned value then
compiler will throw error here we will not throw will not throw error.
Compiler working on actual values are assumptions. Assumptions here 100% B
value is zero. 100% B value is zero. Here
maybe zero maybe assigned value here 100%.
Assigned value. Okay. Now will you get error here? We will not get error here.
We will not get error here. Look compile number coming line number
six. So I am commenting that line number six.
Okay. Changing to what? Example.b. Error. No error. No error. Now I'm
calling M1 method in static block here. Huh?
Error and no error. Error. No error.
Why error here? Is M1 method not available inside static block? What are you doing?
You are calling M1 method. What compiler verifies? Is M1 method available? Huh?
Available. Then why error?
Is it verified from the static block or verified in MR method?
This is method calling statement. Right? Is this line right or wrong?
Right. Any problem? No problem. No problem. Coming out of static block compiler
coming to M1 method in M1 method A B will compiler see is this M1 method
called in static block or called in main method? It will verify no it will come here B variable access inside where
method. Now when this line is executed when method is called where you call M1 method maybe in the static block maybe
in the main method. If you call in static block default value. If you call in main method assign value compiler
thinking oh you may call it in a main method. So compiler throwing error not throwing not throwing error compile
successful not understand
nothing is there just you have to put your brain. What is that? If you access static variable in static method either
before declaration or after declaration there is no compile time error
because two explanations automatic explanation
you want automated explanation or full explanation. Okay automated explanation first. Okay first automated explanation
what is that? There is no priority between static variable and static method.
Static variable static block we have priority as per priority there is a 100%
guarantee the default value will come so compiler throw error there is no priority between static variable and
static method static method is executed only when we call if I call executed if
I don't call not executed then there is no problem and 1% only you have problem
99% there is no problem now so The priority will give here what 99% and not
throwing error. So two points are there. Number one, if I access non-static
variable in static method, it may return default value or may return assigned
value. That's why compiler not throwing error. If you access static variable in static block or in static variable
assignment 100% get compile time error because 100% you are getting default value only. Understand? Right. Next
point. If we access
If we access static variable,
if we access static variable inside static method,
If we access static variable inside static method directly by its name
if you access static variable in static method directly by its name there There is no compile time error
because there is no priority.
There is no priority
between static variable and static method.
Static variable and static method execution flow
continuation. Next point. From static method
from static method. Static variable.
Static variable returns either default value
either default value or
assigned value. So no compile time error.
So no compile time error. Full stop. What is the output from below
program? What is the output from the below
program?
What is the output from the below program?
So hope you all understand what is happening in the legal for reference point. Uh tell me I have a static
variable final conclusion table.
I have static variable.
Now tell me before this declaration static variable declaration before
declaration static variable is there static block is there static method is
there main method is there. Okay. Uh tell me now from static
variable can access static variable for reading possible or not possible.
Static block not possible. Static method possible. Main method possible. Write on
this. Not possible. Not possible. Possible
possible.
reading directly by its name.
please remember so that you can easily answer the questions in the exam flow is same only thing is where you are
accessing is point okay apply the flow of execution and then answer the program
some more test cases are there I'll upload to the Google classroom practice clear thank you That's all for today
class. Tomorrow we'll complete next points. Thank you.

