ript


Good morning everyone.
What we are discussing last class?
Last class we completed recursive method and recursive constructor call
and stack stack workflow error. Anything else we discussed?
No. Also we discussed different ways of loading class into JVM. So two topics we
completed in last class. First one is recursive method and recursive
constructor call. Second one is different ways of loading class into JVM. So two topics we have completed in
last class. Okay. Any of missed yesterday class, offline students,
I don't ask any questions. Any of you missed yesterday class? Okay.
Online students, any of you missed yesterday class?
Uh okay.
Uh next topic is
encapsulation. Okay. Next topic is encapsulation.
Manhatty, why did you click on raise hand button?
Any doubts for fun? You click how it works?
Uh what the topic? Encapsulation. Okay.
Now tell me what is encapsulation. Encapsulation is a encapsulation. It is
used for encapsulation.
Capsule. Capsule. Capsule. You know encapsulation
as capsule. Okay. That's why people are saying
capsu capsule capsule you know tablet tablet there are two types are the round tablet and bottom hello we call it as a
goal right so what is encapsulation
we have already completed what is encapsulation
but you don't know that that is called encapsulation I'm repeating Again we have already
completed encapsulation. Jamana column back. We have already completed
encapsulation. But you don't know it is called encapsulation. Tell me you know
how to prepare chicken biryani. Okay. Chicken only. Chicken curry.
Chicken curry means adding sambar chi.
Adding masala to the curry is called
chicken curry. My question understood.
What the meaning of chicken curry? Is chicken curry means masala is called
chicken curry or the chicken pieces are chicken curry?
Uh many people are feeling encapsulation is object oriented program.
The mashallah is called object oriented program. That is wrong.
Understand that is wrong. What is object oriented programming? Means
creating a class variables, methods, constructor, blocks, inner classes is
called object- oriented program. So this is what we have learned last few days.
Object- oriented programming basics means creating real world object in programming world. For this what are the
concepts are required? Number one class, object, instance.
What is a class? What is an object? What is an instance? How can we represent
real world object in the programming world? How can we Okay,
what should we consider
to represent real world object in the programming world? Huh? What should we consider to
represent real world object in the programming world? structure of the object or values of the object.
What should we consider to represent real world object in the programming world? Structure of the object or values
of the object. Values of the object. Then how can we store values of the object in the programming world? By
using uh by using data type by using
variables. Okay. Data type is for creating variables not by using data.
What is a variable? How can we create variable? For storing math values, what
type of variable I have to create for storing object reference? What type of variable we have to create? Right? And
then how many different types of variable Java support? When we
when must we when must we choose static variable non-static variable how many
copies when must we choose or when to choose when to choose parameter and local
variable how many copies of memory. Next example for static variable
non-static variable parameter and local variable. Uh next, how can we implement
an operation of an object? How can we implement an operation of an object? By using method. Uh what is a method? Why
method? How can we create a method? How can we control accessing the variable or method from other class? Variable and
method from other class. How can we allow access variable and method by using and without using object? Are you
able to recolct the answers for these questions? How can we receive input to a method? Parameter. How can you return
output from the method? Return type. How what are what are the different ways we
can call wide and non-wide method? Wide method one way. Non-wide method five ways. Next, how can we access static
variable and non-static variable from a method? If we access static variable directly by using its name from which
non-static variable value from which object?
Non-static variable value from which object the non-static variable value read and modify current object. So what
is current object? How can we access current object inside a constructor inside a method? This keyword what is
it? This why this responsibilities of compiler and JVM with respect to this when will compiler when does
when does compiler not add this to non-static variable or non-static method accessing statement? What is default
value? Variable shadowing. Local preference problem with variable shadowing. Solution and advantage of
variable shadowing. Different ways of initializing, reading, modifying and printing object data. Which approach is
best? Sepra method approach is best. What is the procedure to create a class for initializing? Uh if you want to
initialize mandatory properties, use constructor. You want initialize optional properties after object
creation, then use set reminder. What are the different memories we can create inside a class? What are the different
memory? What are the different members? What are the different members we can
create inside a class? Uh what are the different members we can create? Two types static and non-static. When to use
static member? When to choose non-static member? What are the execution flaw static members and multiple classes?
What are the execution of non-stratic members with and with a single class and
multiple class
with a single and multiple classes. What are the execution flow of static members
and non-static members? Combination execution flow. Then compile error illegal forward
reference solution recursive method and recursive constructor call and stack workflow error. And then next we also
discussed what is the different okay this point I don't want to cover here okay what are the programming elements
used for creating a real world object in the programming world how many five
class variables blocks constructor method inner class and instances
uh now what are what is the steps to create real world object in the programming world seven steps
I real world object created by using class Identify its properties create them by using static instance fields.
Identify when to initialize. Okay. Identify its properties. Identify inner
object. Identify individual objects. Identify those uh those instances with
those individual object. Initialize those instances with individual object. Perform operation by calling methods. So
these are the seven steps we have to follow for creating real world object. Then develop sample project with all
about programming elements and explain flow of execution of the project. So I want you people to follow okay one
project you develop by your own I don't help you have to develop by your own okay so this is what we discussed as
part of object- oriented programming basics last 20 days
okay
Gupta yesterday Google classroom link why it will work today it will work only
Yesterday you were not there yesterday.
Yesterday will work only yesterday. Today it will not work. And then why you didn't join yesterday?
Okay. I will share this file.
Okay. Let me do one thing first. Let me take
revision on objectoriented programming and project I will upload this file and one
sample project also I'll upload just you try to go through once okay
now chapter number 22 what is this
and cap Actually
today holiday okay today I'm not well
so today I announced a holiday but I forgot to post the message in your
Google class that's why I
Okay, no problem. Uh now
look at here encapsulation. As part of encapsulation what you have
to learn encapsulation already you have learned.
Encapsulation is not a programming. Repeat again. Encapsulation is not a program. Encapsulation is a technique.
You are planning to learn you know kung fu karate.
You are a teacher kung fu teacher he started telling you move hand like this move hand like this. Okay. Now after you
learn kung fu how to fight with others then to win the race win the game you
have to apply some techniques now. And when he is giving the shot to you, you
have to uh what do you call escape from that shot and return shot you have to give that techniques nothing but
encapsulation. Writing program is object oriented program. Writing that program to get
some benefits is called technique encapsulation. I am writing a program bank account
class. This bank account class contain variables account number, account holder
name, balance, username, password. Okay. Now my question is I am I am I I have a
customer. Okay. The customer is trying to access this bank account to store values and read values.
In the real life, I'm not talking about program world. In real world, this bank
account is nothing but your ATM. In ATM, you want to deposit money. This arrow
mark inside is what? Deposit. This arrow mark outside is what? Withdraw. Can you
directly go and deposit money in the ATM?
Can you directly take the money from the ATM? Huh? Can you open the door and put
your hand inside and take money? Then background security person will come with a gun and put on your head.
Okay. Sorry sir, I'm trying. So tell me what is the rule here? Are you allowed
to deposit or withdraw money directly as you like? No, there is a rule. What is
the rule? First you check you are authorized person. If you are authorized
person then take either deposit or withdraw. You have to first verify you
are authorized person. That means there should be a checking before access.
Similarly, our class also uh any student can come and sit in the classroom. No,
first ID card checking and then allowing now demo classes. Checking or allowing
or directly allowing? Directly allowing demo classes no checking. Anyone can come and sit. But
after demo classes completed, uh the live classes will be not allowed for everyone. That means previously doors
are open anyone can come but later what happened I am the data I am put in this
room doors are closed then outside ID card checking is there if condition the
coming values are valid go on the store coming values are wrong res uh so that
admin is nothing but what if condition now tell me what is the point if I want
ID card checking if you want admin to check the ID card. First of all, I
should be available in open place. In the closed place, uh the closed place is nothing but what?
Encapsulation. Tell me this fan has encapsulation. The parts of the fan is open to your
closed. There are so many parts of the fan. Are all the parts of the fan can you see? Can you touch? Can you access?
No. So that mean this fan parts are encapsulated and tell me this keyboard you take this keyboard parts are
encapsulated. Yes, this keyboard parts are encapsulated. Everything is hiding
closed from us. So any object whose data is closed and not provided direct access
is called what? Encapsulated. Clear? Uh now tell me providing access to the
object data directly is a bad programming. Wrong programming. Then what is right programming?
What is the problem? If I provide direct access already we discussed this point.
There are four ways to provide access to the object. Number one direct access. Number two v methods. V constructor via
blocks. If we provide direct access what is the problem? Okay. If we provide direct access we have security problem.
Anyone can access object data. Wrong values can be stored. Code redundancy. Same logic I have tried for every
customer. For every change we have to modify complete project.
Then what is the solution to this problem? First you hide data. First you hide the data. How can we hide
the data? We must declare all fields as private. We must declare all fields as
private. So when you declare all fields as a private then other programmer can access our data. No. Then what should we
do? We hide data means we place the cash inside the ATM completely stop accessing
or authorized persons we are providing access. Uh we are hide data and provide
access that providing access is technically called what encapsulation.
How can you provide access? Via setter and getter method. So customer uh setter
method is meant for setting value. Get method is meant for getting value. Are
you following? So now tell me what we done. We have created one class. Now
what we did? We have created one class. What is the name of the class? Bank account. In the bank account class we
have fields. These fields are having direct access or private access or private. All these fields are declared
as private. All these fields are declared as private and the private fields are provided
access to whom now set method. Uh look at there the fields and methods are binded together or not and providing
access to that fields via set method to story via get method for reading. Uh now
tell me what was the heading we taken previous chapter binding fields with methods. What is the
advantage of binding fields with the methods? We can stop wrong value storing. We can verify correct person is
accessing or not. Lot of advantages are there. Around five advantages are there. Creating a class by binding variables
and methods as a one unit and providing access to the fields only via set and
get method either for reading or modifying its data. This style of writing program is called what?
Encapsulation. Tell we we already learned this code or not only we don't know the definition.
This style of writing code is called what? Encapsulation. We don't know that terminology but the code is already you
learn. Encapsulation already you learn. Then tell me what user has to do. Uh now
user create an object. User create an object with object account object and
invoke set method to store value. Invoke get method to read value. This style of writing program is technically called
what? Encapsulation. Everyone understand now? Uh so tell me what is an encapsulation and why an
encapsulation? Tell me what is encapsulation and why encapsulation? Encapsulation is one of the woopu
principles. There are totally three principles are there. Encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism.
Encapsulation is the one of the woopu principles. The process of wrapping up
of wrapping means what? Covering. wrapping up of or binding up of variables and methods as a one unit by
using class and operating those variables only via methods either for
reading or modifying values is called what encapsulation.
Uh what are you doing by developing encapsulation? We are hiding by developing encapsulation we are hiding
data from direct access from other objects and providing access via publicly available getter and set method
with the proper validations and tell me if I don't develop encapsulation if I
don't close the door if I am teaching the class in a open place can I can I say somebody hey don't listen my class
can I tell them no if I say hey you don't look at my class don't listen my class then you'll command warning me
then why you are conducting class in open area go into one room and take the class there isn't it uh whose
responsibility is hiding myself it is my responsibility I cannot stop other people too don't access so if you want
provide access to your fields with validation then first of all you have to hide it take the data into your method
parameter tell me when I take the value into my method parameter I can check
whether the value is right or wrong observe this code Now observe this code. Now I have created a class bank account.
Uh now this bank account class I declare the balance variable as a private.
If I declare balance variable as a private customer can access the balance variable directly to store 5,000. No he
has to access only via set balance. Then tell me the balance 5,000 directly coming on storing in the field or coming
on storing in the method parameter storing in method parameter. when it's
stored in the method parameter before storing that value this dobbalance equal to balance this dotbalance equal to
balance this is the line taking the parameter value and storing in the current object field uh now tell me now
before storing the parameter value into the current object balance I can write one if condition to verify it is a
negative number or positive number in the bank what type of balance is not allowed positive number allowed negative
number not allowed if I don't develop nc Encapsulation what the meaning of encapsulation hide the data from direct
access and provide via set balance. If I don't develop setter method and getter method directly if I provide balance
variable access can he write account one dotbalance equal to minus 5,000 will
compiler stop it? No. Will JVM stop it? No. Can developer u stop it? No. Because
already you give permission to him to access uh because compiler and JVM not
stopping to store wrong value. Who has to stop? We have to stop. Tell me account one. Balance equal to true. If I
write compiler throwing error because true is a balance or incompatible according to my business negative number
is compatible number incompatible number incompatible. Then will JVM stop it? No.
According to data type is allowed according to business not allowed. So to stop according to business you have to
write the validation code for that first you take into the balance variable into your parameter local variable and then
verify if it is right then store otherwise throw error so this style of
writing code is called what encapsulation everyone understand look at here one small program I'll show you
uh do you have encapsulation in this program no Why?
Because direct access is there. If you provide
direct access, can you say encapsulation? No. Uh now no encapsul. Now encapsulation is there.
Come on. Come on. Now do you have encapsulation? Yes sir. No.
No. What is there? Data hiding is there. Only data hiding
is there. Encapsulation not there.
Understood? If you declare variable as a private, what the meaning of it? only
data hiding is there. Encapsulation not there. Encapsulation means what? Provide
access via setter method. Uh now tell
do you have encapsulation? Do you have encapsulation? Yes.
Why? Because you declared fields as a private. Uh next
you provide access via set method. Hello. But there is no
condition. If there is no condition then encapsulation there are not there.
Huh? Come on. Encapsulation there are not there. Condition is not part of
encapsulation. Condition is the advantage by developing encapsulation. If you develop
encapsulation, I can write condition if I want. Condition not comes under encapsulation only covering binding
wrapping variables with the methods and provide access via methods that much only encapsulation. If you project
demanding condition, write condition otherwise don't write condition. So encapsulation is there or not there what
you verify only one point you have to verify. What is the fields? declare as a private yes and provide access via set
method and get method. Yes. Kam later if I want to provide an condition
we can do again tell me is encapsulation there why
direct access is there private is not there okay now no encapsulation now I'm
writing like this
encapsulation is there a why why
uh you didn't declare the fields as private if you don't declare field as a
private then it provide direct access now so if you declare private and set method
now encapsul so what is encapsulation encapsulation is nothing word
uh declare the field as a private and provide their access only via publicly
available setter and get methods. In simple terms we can say declaring fields
as a private providing their access via set get methods is called encapsulation. Inside that method set method get method
if you required we will provide validation otherwise we will leave it. So final conclusion what? If you want
security to your object data, if you want stop storing wrong values, if you
want provide code reusability, you have to provide access only via setter method and getter method. This is the story
about encapsulation. So what you have to tell to interior about encapsulation. Point number one, encapsulation is a one
of the woo principles. Point number two, the process of binding
variables and methods as a one unit by using a class and operating the fields
via methods either for reading or modifying its value is called
encapsulation. Then next by developing encapsulation we are hiding the data from direct access
and providing access only via publicly available setter and getter methods. By what the advantage of encapsulation? By
developing encapsulation we will provide sorry we will achieve security to object
data. We can stop storing wrong values. We will achieve code reusability and centralized code change. These are the
points you have to okay now. And real time example every time you have to tell one real time example. The real time
example for encapsulation is you only who is that you
are in room. Enter you is encapsulated.
Is enterer encapsulated or not? How can I say?
Is he available in the open place conducting the interviews? He is there inside the company in one room locked.
Tell me you person you the candidate want to access interviewer can you access directly? Huh? How can you access
it? Only via HR team and security team. Now first security HR team has send you
call letter for interview. Then with the call letter you come to office. Security person checking whether you have the
permission to attend interview or not. After checking permission now you are allowed to go into conference number
one. CR1, CR2, CR3. CR means conference room. CR1, CR2, they will tell go to
CR1. What is CR1? Don't ask. CR means conference room one. Uh then just check
the room will have the label CR1 or go into CR1. What you tell to the interviewer? The the real life example
is you yourself and smile. You yourself and smile. Huh? What? You only
interviewer. Interviewer is encapsulated from the candidate to access directly
provide access via HR team and security team after proper verification. This is
nothing but encapsulation. If you tell this example immediately look at your face don't go anywhere
sitta I'll come back and you will come up back with the appointment letter sign right say you
join from today only because you understood encapsulation
with real life example the two live example in the room second example you can take AC in the
conference room AC will be there now this AC parts are encapsulated we cannot directly access them We can access them
only via the buttons arranged on the AC or via remote.
You want to increase the AC cooling, decrease the cooling, I have to just press the buttons. This button set, get
set, button click. Then it is showing the the AC number there 26 24. What is
that? Get. Are you following my point? uh every object in this world is
encapsulated and provide access to its parts only via methods. Okay. Uh now let me take real
life. Real time example. Real life examples are interant AC. Real time
example. Real time example means business example. For example, you take bank application, ATM. In ATM we have
cash. We cannot directly take. We can take only via by verification. That's why that is a encapsulation.
If you tell real time example, sorry, real life example.
What is encapsulation? Somebody asked what is encapsulation? First you start with real life example following by
definition then following by real time example. Real life means human. Real real life
mean uh real time means project. Repeating again. Real life means human.
Life means human. Real time means project. One real time project. Business example you have to take and explain.
Three levels. Encapsulation you have to explain three level. Real life example.
Enter your AC TV. Okay. Second definition and third real time example
business example with if you explain this three level entry will be satisfied. Now encapsulation completed.
All people got clarity. Uh now there are two types of encapsulations
are there. There are two types of encapsulation. Weak encapsulation and strong
encapsulation. People are saying tight encapsulation. That's wrong. Encapsulation means what? Covering. Tell
me these fan parts are covered by these two cups. Tightly covered. Strongly
covered. Can you break it and go inside? No. Strong is correct answer. Tight is wrong
answer. Tight coupling. Connection is coupling.
Connection is tight. Are you following? Closing covering is called not tight.
Covering is called what? Strong. People are wrongly saying in the market be careful. We have two types of
encapsulation. Weak encapsulation and strong encapsulation. Uh look at their
class example in X private into Y. Is it strongly encapsulated? Weakly
encapsulated. Why? One of the property is not declared as a private. There is a boat. Boat all
complete boat is very strong. But one small hole is there down
only very small hole is there. Then by the time that ship is coming middle of the middle of the sea, it will be
sinker. Why? By that time full water is coming into ship. Uh the small hole is
also create a problem. That means I have 100 variables are there. All 100 fields I declare them as a public I mean
private. Only one field I didn't declare as a private then it's called weak encapsulation. All fields I declare as a
private then what we call it as strong encapsulation. So if all fields in the
class declare as a private then we call it as strong encapsulation. At least one
field if you don't declare as a private then we call it as weak encapsulation. Tell me what type of class we have to
develop in the project. Weak encapsulated class or strong encapsulated class. Strong encapsulated
class you have to develop. Suppose in my class I have one final variable. I
didn't declare it as a private then it is a stronger weaker strong why why are
you developing encapsulation for stop storing wrong values for stop unauthorized people to access a final
means it's a fixed value now fixed value can you change no fixed value can
anybody can access and read not a problem for example minimum balance of an account what is the minimum balance
of an account anybody can know it's not a problem okay 10,000 uh Now tell me so
if you declare field as a final it is not changeable so you can access
directly from other programmer there is no problem hence final variable declare
as a private or non-private doesn't matter so final conclusion is what if we declare all nonfal variables as private
then we call it as strong encapsulation at least one non-final variable is not
declared as a private we call it as What? B encapsulation. Understand my point? And now this is the direct entry
question. Read this question and tell me what is the right answer. This is a direct entry question on
encapsulation.
huh what is the answer? Weak encapsulation. What did you understand from this question? We should
not only consider variables, also consider what? Methods. I have a class. Class contain variables and methods.
This variable or method should be accessible only within the same class but annoyingly other class developers
also accessing then is right or wrong or wrong. So this class contain weak encapsulation. This is the final
conclusion on encapsulation. Tell something about encapsulation. Somebody asked what he should answer. Please read
these points and if you have any confusion
uh completed now. All points are understood. Any doubts?
Understood. Next.
completed. So these are the points you have to understand and now these are the three
assignments you have to work. Okay. Bank project one developed and
another assignments you have to work on bike project tell me bike compatible
numbers are what 0 to 5
0 to 5 if a bike number we are setting as min
-1 -2 or more than five allowed or not allowed where
in the real life but in programming life wish any number you can said compiler
will not stop, JV will not stop. But you have to develop. I want you write the code to stop setting the gear number to
the bike only between 0 to 5. That means gear variable of the bike object. You
have to encapsulate from other programmer and ask him to send the gear number as argument to your setter
method. Inside set method verify the gear number is between 0 to five. If it
is between 0 to five, hello otherwise throw error. Understand? Uh now another
example water. Now it is a voting time now. Uh tell me who is allowed to vote.
Whose age is greater than 18 years? If your age is less than 18 years, can you allow to vote? No. And then I have to
stop the person to vote generate the water ID. Then these are the three examples you have to develop. This
entire notes and these examples I will upload to the Google classroom. Will you all work on it? Uh so with this
we completed encapsulation we have to start work with inheritance.
So encapsulation is already we developed the code just you have to just go through one more two to three examples
by your own. Okay today you please work out with the examples and tomorrow we are going to see what is inheritance how
to develop inheritance. After inheritance completed then I will with the uh first day hello world program to
with inheritance whatever you have learned all topics will combine and develop the complete big project okay
and then we will find some problems and then we'll go for next level okay don't miss tomorrow class tomorrow I'll take
the class thank you that's all for today
I will upload this encapsulation enter notes. Please try to go through with projects.
What is not working?
You are old batch.
You are batching old batch. You are just shifted from that batch. Then same Google your old Google classroom this
one same no there's no space here that's a problem will come that's what I already
told no

