ript


Uh right. Good morning everyone.
Right. Last class we have completed inheritance theory and we have learn inheritance programs
also. Inheritance programs means obtaining the type of the existing
class. Second.
Second. Reusing existing class members.
Third. Yeah. Reusing existing class members.
Third members means values and behavior only.
Okay. As part of inheritance, creating new class deriving from an existing
class by using keyword extends and implements.
Second, storing subclass object in superclass reference variable nothing
but obtaining type. Third, accessing super class non-private members in
subclass by using subclass reference. It's nothing but reusing
then adding more properties and behaviors in the subclass as part of as
part of this subclass functional
as part of the subclass functionality and reusing superclass properties and behaviors in subclass functionality.
It's nothing but project. So inheritance means same story whatever you have
learned previously same points we are learning here also but the difference is
previously you created a class in you created one class and you access that
class members in another class by using by creating object of that particular
class. But here in inheritance you are accessing the existing class members not
by creating that existing class object you are create you are accessing members by using the same new subclass
reference. So as part of inheritance or inheritance programming
we will learn. Okay. Creating new class deriving from
an existing class. Storing subclass object reference in superclass reference
variable. Accessing accessing super class non-private
members in subclass by using subclass reference and adding more properties.
Tell me you want to add extension. Extinction means what? Adding more properties and behaviors. Now adding
more properties and behaviors as uh in a subclass as part as per as per this
subclass functionality. Okay. As for the subclass functionality this is called project. So now I want to
today yesterday I have completed already explaining creating a class deriving from an existing class by using extends
keyword storing subclass of the reference in super class reference variable and next accessing super class
non-private members in subclass and by using subclass in user class.
These points we have completed yesterday. Uh can we access private members in the subclass? No, only we can
access non-private members. And today we need to develop this project.
You must remember this point. Okay. Are ready for the project?
Right. Open notes.
Develop a project.
Develop a project.
Wait a minute.
Creating real world object in the programming world we have to use how many concepts class fields
static block instance block constructor set method get method business logic method this keyword and tell me while
working with this constructor set method all so we have to use what this keyword
and instances by providing security to object data
and by providing dynamic binding between objects communication. You don't know about dynamic binding between objects
communication. I'll explain you that
if you develop inheritance automatically get dynamic binding. Inheritance main purpose is achieving dynamic binding
done completed. Uh now tell me when you read this question so what are the
thoughts should come to design the project. When a question is given to you client is given a requirement document
to you. By reading the requirement document slowly you have to analyze and should start convert that requirement
document as a program. Uh tell me now slowly point by point try to analyze.
First point is what? Object oriented programming and I have to create classes. For what purpose?
To create real world objects in the programming. To create real world objects in the programming world, we
have to start creating classes. Okay. First you have to create class. First you have to identify objects.
Uh identify how many objects in this program?
Five project. Five objects are there. What are the five objects? Person, student,
faculty, admin and party. Party is also object. Party has a values. Party has
operations. Now, party is also object. So, party is not a thing. Sir, party is a thing. It has a values. What values
are there? Food. And operations. What operations? Eatuh,
drink and next warming. Further hospitalization lot of operations are there. No. Uh so
what the story now very important you have to identify objects. Uh once you
identify objects you have to find the relation between the objects.
What are the relation between objects? You have to identify. So tell me what is the relation between party and a person?
How many relations we have? Two relations is a relation and has a relation. What is the relation between
party and person? How can you find is relation or has
relation? Apply is a test. I told you now party is a person is party walking
on the road with le. No. Uh person is a party. No. Uh then is relation not
there. Then next what you have to find between whom? Apply again has a test. Person has a
party. No party has a person. Yes. A party is nothing but a place. In that
place now person is going and standing there and eating food and enjoying the party. All catch my point. So what
relation I have to develop between party and person has relation. Has relation
means person should go into the party place. Now in Java go into and argument.
Going from one place to another place going is nothing but a word argument. So party must receive the person to enjoy
the party. Isn't it? That means person should be a argument to the party or
not. In the party class we should have one method with the parameter called
what? Person. Understand? How to develop has relation?
has a relation developed by using keyword by reference variable reference variable. We have to store object of
another class. In our class I told you the member of the class is having what
relation has a class person have the members eyes, ears, hands, legs, eat to
eat, sleep all these are what members in the body part open bracket closed bracket inside whatever you have that is
called what has a relation. So the party should has person that means person
class reference variable I have to create in the class called party or not how either class level variable or
method level variable. Now here party always has a persona party running time
only persona and how long party should associated with the person until running completed
until eating completed. So tell me when people are invite for marriage function
now are people are staying in the marriage hall until marriage completed.
No until food completed. Yes or no? They will come first. Okay. For example, if
the marriage is around 7:00 or 8:00, it's okay. People will stay. If the marriage is midnight, 12:00 or 1:00,
generally marriages will be midnight or early morning. No. Uh then what happen? people come and show their face to that
you know relatives and saying I came okay and then when the food completed I
go to home marriage no right blessing the new couple right
so don't do that mistake in future when you attend any marriage so eat the food go home again at the marriage more time
you come back and stay there and bless the people and go okayh again eat they
provide again eat no problem okay come back what The important point here you have to find the relation has a. How to
develop has a relation by creating another class type reference variable in
our class where I can create reference variable either at a class level or at
method level. I want have that object always in my object. If my class object
is created, I want that object. Without other object presence, I cannot do any
operation. Then you have to create that reference variable at what level? Class level. Because inside object what
variables will have memory? Class level variables. Without another object I
cannot perform one operation. Without another object I cannot perform
one operation. Then I have to use only parameter one operation only. Now one
operation method. One operation is nothing but one method. So when to create has a relation. My object is a
different type than other object. Two objects are different type object. My object is using the operations of
another object to complete my operation. Without another object I cannot live.
Then you have to create what relation has a with instance variable. Person I
have to create inside the class able to visualize. I I want another object only
for completing one operation of mine only for one operation I want I don't want complete all my operation I can
live without another object but I need that object for completing one operation then I have to create that another class
reference variable as a parameter for example now I am taking class person
class person has another object called what heart and tell me heart and person
is what relation is relation has relation is relation has relation that
heart class referenced variable I must create inside person class as a class
level variable method level variable can person live without heart wherever
person object is created background heart object also should associate now then tell me what I have to do art
variable I have to create as a non-static variable in the person class Understand?
Next question. I have a bike. Can person live without bike?
Uh person wanted to travel? Person class contain a method called what? Travel.
For traveling purpose, I need one vehicle. Uh tell me now vehicle V or bike B or bus B. This referenced
variable. Vehicle class reference variable must create inside person class as a class level variable or method
parameter. Mother parameter ar your body has bike
is your body attached to the bike without bike your body cannot live no I
want bike only how long until I travel once my traveling completed I don't want
bike I not require a bike my association with bike is loss but association with
heart loss if association with the heart loss you also lost correct my point now let us
take one more example address tell me a person has a address or uh now the
address class reference variable in my class I should create at a class level or in a method parameter
method parameter can you can you live without address no compulsory should
have other card is nothing but what address know your client KYC know your
client so without address you cannot get any any facilities any services in this world right so
address is a part of your body you have to create as what uh non-static variable
instance variable how can I develop has a relation I can develop has a relation between two different type of object one
object is using the operations of another object then we have to use what has a relation how to develop has a
relation by creating one class referenced variable in another class I
can create that reference variable either at a class level as a instance variable or as a method parameter. If
you create as a class level instance variable, then this object always has
another object. Next, if you create as a parameter of a method, that object
association we will have only until this operation completed. Is point is clear?
Second, uh I am in a new object exactly look like a existing object. I
am not a different type of object. I am an object of existing object with a
special functionalities. Then I should develop is a relation has a relation. Is a relation. I have two different type of
object has a relation. I am the object of existing type with a special
functionalities. Then I have to develop what relation is a relation. So how many relations are there? Three relation. Has
sorry is a has a use. What relation? Use essay. If you connect one class to
another class with extensive keyword, what relation is a you connect one class to another class with a reference
variable then has a use. You connect one class with another class with instance
variable has a you connect one class with another class with the method parameter uses a I am using that object
until my operation completed. user say I have that object for all operations of
my object then what has a is it clear is a relation is called inheritance has a
relation uses a relations are called association what relation uh how many
relations we have two relation inheritance relation and association in association again two relations are
there composition and aggregation what relation
Class level variable instance variable relation is called composition. Method parameter is called aggregation. Just a
terminology words remember practically you have to remember the meaning of this practical theory also you have to
remember. Okay. Now tell me party to the person. What relation?
Has a relation? Party has a persona. Party uses a persona.
Has us. How long? How long party has a person?
Until running. Until running. Correct. That means has us.
Eating completed. Still are you living in the party area? After eating
completed, you are leaving the party area. Huh? Yes, there is a one function hall in that functional lifelong you are staying
there. You are going to function hall argument
cor if you are staying there permanently then you are has a relation you are
going to function hall completing that eating operation coming out from the
party hall then now that is called use party has a persona party uses a persona
for which operation to complete it that means person is a instance variable a
parameter variable parameter variable understand. So now are you connecting
the party class and person class with extensive keyword with in parameter variable
able to visualize two ders what the two ders da and par uh party da and person
da left side is a party right side is what person able to visualize now to
receive this person as a argument into party there should be a one method with a parameter what is the method name
Eat method receiving person as a argument. Clear my point. What relation you establish between the party and
person uses a relation with instance variable parameter parameter. Now I
found there are different types of persons are there. Student person,
faculty person, admin person, cook person, sweeping person. There are different types of persons are there.
Then for each type of person I have to create separate class because single class person cannot represent different
functionality of the person. So how many classes I have to create? For each type of person one separate class I have to
create. I have identified three classes. Now student, faculty, admin. Three classes created. Now these three classes
I have to create as individual classes or as a extension of person class
by has a relation is relation by using extends keyword implements keyword
extends keyword. So observe the final diagram. Whenever you have seen the
question on object oriented programming immediately you have to draw UML
diagram. UML diagram object relation class object relation diagram UML
diagram. Uh obser here identify first object is what? Person.
Second object is what? Party. Party contains this is a class diagram. Okay.
Party contain an operation called what? In uh the relation between
party and person is what relation is has
uh uses a relation
relation is represented by diamond symbol. How to pronounce party?
Use a say or has a anything you can write. Generally use say is not using
only people are using what has a party has a person.
Next student,
faculty, admin. Uh what the relation between these
objects? Person is a is relation is arrow mark from parent to child.
What this relation is
understand the diagram. Uh with ease relation what are you doing? You are grouping multiple objects of same type
as one type.
Uh finally into the party who is going
Which person going? Huh? Either student type of person or faculty
type of person or admin type of person is going. Understand? Now write down
this diagram.
Next three classes are very important. We are discussing polymorphism
uh types of polymorphisms. Okay. Then abstraction abstract class
interface topics we are learning. So please don't miss next week classes are next week classes are so much important
classes.
Do you have any class at morning 7:00 a.m. class there already?
Okay. So what time 7 a.m. class completing
7 to 9
skipping that's what the plan you should have
proper plan 7 a.m. You should not have class if you have 9:00 because Stephanie
should eat. If you miss the breakfast then health issues will come.
If your health is spoiled then where is the class? Nothing. So that's why first priority is always to the food and
health and sleep. That's why I told you time management. First priority to eat
and sleep. Then second priority to study. Okay no problem.
So why I'm asking this? Uh by this Sunday I'm completing my 7 a.m. batch.
So I can start your class like earlier 9:00 a.m. sharp if you want. Okay. No
sir. Uh 7 a.m. class is there. Tiff and requirements. So I'll go for regular 710 7:15. Okay. No problem. Okay. Uh
completed a diagram.
And now let's start implementing the code. Person class I want to implement. Tell me person is a object for creating
real world object in the programming world. What I have to use class person
inside class person to represent its values fields to initialize static fields static block to initialize
instance fields instance block and constructor to set new values setter
method to get existing values getter method to perform business operations business logic to print object data to
string method in order to connect non-static methods constructor instance block with instance fields. What keyword
I have to use this keyword and in order to have multiple objects of this type we have to create instances.
So now I have to create observe now
person class person class contain fields static fields
private static fields and private non-static fields by declaring these fields as private what we have developed
encapsulate. Uh now by using class we are by using here here what are class
and its members for representing object. Class and its members
for representing which object person object clear and then by declaring all
fields as a private we have developed encapsulation. So what is the project? Show implementing encapsulation and
inheritance by achieving woke principles. So first create real world
object in programming world class and its members providing security to object data encapsulation.
Okay. Now then now tell me I want initialize the static fields. I have to create what? Static block. I I don't
want initialize these three properties common to all objects. So instance block
is not required. only one constructor we are writing instance block is not required but I wanted to use the
instance block so I'm taking count variable to initialize count variable to count how many persons are created okay
do have you ever taken um metro train metro train when you go side box side
one board has placed what is that thank you so much Hyderabad for five lakhs uh
five lakhs passengers to serve how that five lakhs count is there now every time and passenger is buying the ticket
whenever ticket is buy means for ticket t1 equal to new ticket that new ticket count variable is increasing so that
count variable I want how many persons has created so for that non-sty block for initializing instance variables I
have constructed and for initialize for setting the new values to the eyes ears
hands legs I have set method for setting the new name height and weight set name set height get height set weight and
then business operations eat Sleep learn okay and then printing purpose two
string clear any new points are here all known points only just we need to write the
code okay write this much I should write or no in
company you don't write in interview room you don't write today class is not a class today class is ent room this is
a question given to you you write check person java
uh inside standard block. What is the code we have read? Assign the values to these four variables
fixed values. 222
Test in your system.
Right comments, side comments are very important.
completed up to study block including comments.
Non-standing block and constructor for initializing non-standing properties.
Any
confusion in this constructor? I have three non-starting properties. So
initializing them, I have created three parameterized constructor. Assign the parameters to constructor. I mean assign
the parameters to instance variable with this dot because variable shadowing.
Next. So, initialization completed. Now, set method for setting the new value.
Uh, tell me set ice method must be static or non-static. Static because variable is static. Then
how to differentiate parameter to the static variable in static method?
class name not by using DC dot. Okay. Hiding constructor completed. Now
I think you can write by your own. No need to look at the screen. You can write.
Are you planning for joining advance?
I ask a question. No respond. If new advanc batch is announced, you
have to join that class. Okay? You know full stack Java has many
courses and with the fullstack Java only you can get a job with only core Java
HTML or Oracle you will not get job. Okay. Compulsory. Now you have to plan
to join at once. Sir, if the slot is not suitable for me, make it suitable. Make
it uh you know uh free. Make the slot free and join. Sir, if advanc started on
the HTML course then or core Java time only advance hour started then change
that batch time to another time and join advance. For example, 9:00 advanc started. What
to do? Go and talk to admin. Change your batch timing to my other batch 5:00 5:00 p.m. class and your batch timing is same
topic is running same. Okay. Offline students come to cook.
Online students join online as it is. You have to complete advance next coming
one month May first week or second week when new advance batch started. By end of May or June 15th you have to complete
advance in the month of June. You should be ready for spring boot batch.
Plan your time. Plan your time properly now onwards. Okay? You are not still
kids not beginners.
You have to plan your time when to join which batch how to join which batch. Okay. Now currently for Java 9:00 a.m.
I'm going. Okay. Now if the same 9:00 advanc has started then what is the suitable time for me to change my batch
to continue advance hour. So these all plans you have to do someone will not come and tell you you are not still kids
right you have to plan your time you should have a deadline okay my course should be completed by this month
faculty completing or not completing or doesn't matter you have to fix your time accordingly other batches you have to
keep on join and complete parallelly okay so for attending advanced Java
required knowledge I completed you can join by the time advanc JDBC completed you have to plan to join spring boot
also sir core java not completed none of your business don't think about core java so what knowledge I'm giving that
is sufficient you know spring boot what is the meaning of learning spring boot you are learning core java once more
time again you are learning core java this diagram only you are learning
okay look this diagram only you're learning in core java in adv what you
call spring boot one more time e diagram one more time you learn
currently we are writing this entire code in Kjavana. Uh some part of the code you are writing
in advanc part of the code you are writing in spring boot. Learning spring boot is nothing but learning core Java
advanced Java one more time with the shortcuts. In core Java everything you are writing
in spring boot 90% of core Java programs already developed you should know how to
use them. In advanced Java JDBC program 100% you are writing in JDBC 99% has
already developed. You should know what is the predefined class name method name to call. Understand? So that is what you
are learning. Learning spring is nothing but learning core Java and advanced Java
one more time with extra features and nothing. So that's why plan your
courses to complete fast in parallel. Get ready for the job quickly. Your full
stack Java you have to complete by end of July
in the month of August. You should be ready for the jobs
August, September, October generally freshers jobs will be there. Okay?
Because by June, July your 2024 passed out people certificates everything will
be ready and your courses also will be completed. You are ready for the job. So generally every year two times
interviews will be there. Number one August, September, October for the
people who fully completed academics and second time for the uh December,
January, February. December, January, February for the campus selections.
Campus elections January, February, uh December, January, February. and
off-c campus off-c campus interviews August, September and October. Clear? So
that's why you should be ready for by August you are entered spring boot MBC
up to spring boot MBC you have to complete then you are eligible for interviews to attend. Clear my point
while attending interviews then you can continue your remaining syllabus of the spring boot. So plan accordingly.
My inter I mean my suggestion plan your spring boot classes either morning 7:00
a.m. or night 7:00 p.m.
Why in the middle you are going for job
9 to 6 is your job time. Now
even you got a job even you are attending interviews then your spring boot batch will not be disrupted.
If you join seriously at 11:00 a.m. spring boot then
if you got job you have to leave this course. You cannot attend interviews in the middle middle of the class can you
go outside to attend interview? No. That's why my request is morning 7:00 a.m. or 7:00 p.m. you can plan for the
springboard. If in the middle 9:00 a.m. or 11:00 a.m. if the batch is started
and if your free slot is there join okay up to what spring boot MBC you
continue here and later if you are plan if you got the job then no problem go to
job and then remaining syllabus you plan you talk to your particular faculty you
will have the classes 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. ship to that batches. That way you can plan it is your course here
according to your comfort plan the courses and complete them as fast as possible and later please don't blame
the faculty you are taking this much time that much time don't blame you have to plan
accordingly clear my point so we are here to give you full knowledge for getting interview ready and accordingly
by attending the courses parally also you have to plan to complete your courses okay write down
Set hands, get hands. Set legs, get legs.
Someone is asking me question. Why are you writing person do ice
instead of this dot ice? All students, someone answer him.
Springboard both are same. Flex me.
Olden days name is spring. Now the name is spring foot.
completed
set name get name set ahead get ahead here I should use class name of this daughter because non-static variable
completed. Now uh set weight get weight.
So setter methods completed. Now business logic methods tell me business logic methods on object is it a
mathematically calculation based code. Eat method, sleep method, learn method, any addition, subtractions. Uh, eat
method should say what? Who is eating? Sleep method should say what? Who is sleeping? Learn method should say what?
Who is that? Means just SOP alone. Name is eating. Name is sleeping. Name
is learn. Write down that three methods.
completed a uh two-string method is not your method. It is available in super
class and you are changing its logic. So what we call it as override. What is
this override? I will explain in the polymorphism chapter. What should I written here? The data of the person
object. Data of the person object is nothing but the properties. Eyes, ears, hands, legs, name, height and weight.
Okay. All six properties or seven properties we are returning from this with the heading called what? Person
details. Okay. Write down this two string method.
I'm done.
close main method sorry close two string method and close person class. So person
class representing person object person object
is ready with all required properties and operations. Okay done. Now we are
ready with our person class. Then tell me next what I have to create.
Next to person student. Okay. Uh tell me student is a
subclass of person. Student is a subclass of person. How to
create? Tell me class student. If I create just a student, is he a person?
Is he allowed to go to the party? Is he allowed to to go to party? No.
Because what objects are allowed to party? Person. If student is not
extending from person, student is not a person. Then he is not allowed to go to
party. Then in order to allow student to go to party, he should be extending from
person. Okay. Now I'm writing extends person. Then tell me wherever student is
allowed and wherever person is allowed student object can be passed or not.
Next is this code compiled or not? I have created a class student extends a
person. Is this code compiled or not compiled? Compiler paka. How can I say what points you
consider to say compile? You are a compiler. No my dear compiler.
Yeah. As a compiler you have to find out is it compiled or not. Huh? Class class keyword available. Student
uh newly creating extense. Extense means what? Already existing class person is
already available or not? Yes. Any compile time error or no compile time error?
Like you all students are got trapped in the exam and lose the mods.
It leads to compile.
All students are got trapped on this point and they are losing marks in the exam. Read
constructor person in a class person cannot be applied to given types
required string www found no argument. Reason actual and formal argument list
differ in the length. Okay,
think I just created a class student extends a
person and I got arrow mark to whom now class. So compiler is throwing error array
class student you have created wrongly because you are calling person class
constructor which constructor you are calling person class which constructor you are
calling no argument constructor you are calling but you have to call string double and double parameter constructor.
Huh? Where am I calling in the student class?
In student class are you calling any constructor? No just it is a empty class.
Ah excellent. In this class student we have default constructor.
Oh okay default constructor.
Oh default constructor no param that's why compile.
Okay string yes d comma. Okay. Double height comma double weight. Uh compiler
let's see. Okay.
Same error. Compiler throwing error because
constructor definition because of constructor calling. Constructor calling.
Uh listen inside a subclass
compiler software by default add default constructor
with a super call. If you remember constructor chapter I told by default
compiler will will place super call in every constructor as a first statement.
Why? for calling superclass constructor. Super call is meant for calling
superclass constructor. Why should I call superclass constructor? For initializing super class variables in
subclass object. Uh now tell me all the people connect the points. I'm creating student S1
equal to new student. Once object is once the class is available I created object S1 variable memory created. Now
the new keyword creates the new instance with the non-static variables memory of
which class uh new keyword come to the student class. Student class is a individual
class or extension of person class. When it is a extension of the person
class, it must have person class members memory also. Now
tell me what are the properties of you? Somebody come and ask
how much property you have? What is your wealth? If somebody ask what is your wealth? Will you say only the lands and
money earned by you or your parent properties also? Parent properties plus your properties.
Isn't it? Your wealth is completely grandparent parent and your properties.
plus understand our English people, Hindi people. So your grandfather
plus your father plus your all completely together what we say it is my
wealth. So in Java also when you use new keyword
new keyword started constructing your wealth your properties are constructing new keyword will go to which class?
Student class student class phone extends a person. That means student
class object must contain student class members memory plus person class members
memory. How many members are there in the person class? Six properties. Sorry, seven properties. All seven properties
are provided memory in this student object. Now next once a new keyword job
is completed providing memory to all the seven properties. Then the new keyword is calling what? Which class
constructor? Student class constructor. For initializing student class constructor implicitly contain the logic
for initializing only student class variables. In the student object we have
only student class variables. Person class variables also. Then person class properties to initialize the logic
initialization logic available in person class constructor. Huh? Subclass constructor must call
superclass constructor for initializing super class properties in subclass
object. So for that purpose how the connection will be there super call.
As a developer as a object creation programmer you will call only subclass
constructor but subclass constructor will call super class constructor also by using the keyword called super. So
tell me when you don't define a constructor very very important when you
don't define a constructor compiler software by default place no param
constructor with what super call understand now this super call is
calling which constructor available in the super class
super keyword is calling super class constructor which constructor
parameter is the constructor. Are you passing any arguments here? When
you don't pass any arguments, how parameter is executed, Babu, right? Tell
me now it is a no param constructor call. Sorry, it is a no param constructor call in person class. Do you
have no param constructor parameter constructor? Then the matching happened and not happened. That's why compala
throwing error. Look, same error.
Constructor person in class person cannot be applied to given types. Previously error mark is given to whom?
Now class keyword. Now the error mark is given to super call. So implicitly super call is adding by
compiler. Then tell me how to solve this compile time error. I have to pass arguments string comma 10, 20 something.
Now compilation solved. Yes.
Understand? We are calling subclass constructor. Subclass constructor is called super class constructor. So
whenever you are creating subclass what you have to verify what is the
constructor available in superass. What is the constructor available in super class parameterized constructor. Then in
the subclass you must define constructor by calling superclass constructor by
passing arguments.
constructor comp.
When you are developing inheritance, you must call the constructor available in the super class in subclass constructor
by using super keyword by passing the argument. If a super class contain no
param constructor in a subclass no argument super call you have to place in super class we have parameterized
constructor in a subclass you have to place a super call with arguments
type of arguments number of arguments based on the constructor available in the super class. Are you people comfortable? Shall I ask the last
question? Is inheritance completed with just
extensive keyword? My question understand is inheritance
development completed with just extens keyword. I just return class student
extends person is inheritance completed. Inheritance means just obtain the type
also obtain properties to obtain the properties. First of all that properties memory should be
allocated and initialized. Memory is allocating by the new keyword
but initialization is not completed with just extends keyword. Extense keyword
only gives the information about super class. The new keyword take the extends keyword help and go to super class.
Allocate members memory first all the non-standardic variables available in the super class. But to complete
initialization superclass constructor must be called. We are calling which constructor? Subclass constructor.
Subclass constructor must call superclass constructor also. Are you following my point? So tell me how can
we complete inheritance? When I can say inheritance is successfully completed with how many keywords? Two keywords.
Number one, extends keyword for obtaining the type. Number two, super
keyword for initializing the members available in the super class. Tell me by
default super call is placed by compiler. Which constructor super call
no argument constructor for example in super class I am removing this
constructor. Uh tell me is the subclass now successfully compiled or not? Yes, because of extends keyword type is
obtained because of super no call. Tell me in super class which constructor is
available now default constructor. Default constructor is a no param constructor. Here compiler placing no
param constructor with the super no argument call that super no argument call matching to the constructor
available in the super class. No compile time error successfully inheritance is completed. For example in super class if
I place parameterized constructor in subclass compiler placing by default default constructor with super no argu
super no call is not matched with the parameterized constructor available in the super class inheritance is not
completed compiler throwing error make the matching to superclass constructor
everyone understand then tell me if a super class doesn't contain no param constructor in subclass you yourself
should Write one constructor and then you yourself should replace super recall
with the arguments matching to super class. Up to now only
people understand but I have a question here think the values I am passing here
are their dynamic values or hard decoded values are hard decoded values. First
student, second student, third student, fourth student, all students are contain same name, same height, same weight but
all students contain same name, same height. So tell me designing of this super subclass constructor is right or
wrong? Wrong. I have to take these values hard to coded values are dynamic values. dynamic values.
Uh to take these values dynamically, I should take them as a argument parameters only. Now uh string name
double height double weight. Now my question once again think and tell me we should match
sub superclass parameter constructor with subclass constructor parameters.
Should I match parameters or should I match calling to the parameters?
Uh I should match super I must match super call arguments type to super class
constructor parameter types. Again repeating subclass parameter no
need to be same as super class constructor parameter type and list.
What should be match? Super class parameter types should be
matched to super call arguments then compile successfully.
Suppose super class constructor parameters are matching to subclass
constructor parameters. I remove super call. If I place if I don't place super call
compiler by default placing what? Super noargument call. Compiler not compiled.
not compare. So most of the students are in a confusion. Ah superclass constructor
parameter subclass constructor parameters are matched match. So program successfully compiled. Right or wrong?
Wrong. What you have to consider? Super class constructor parameter types must
be matched to super call arguments in the subclass constructor. Parameters of
super class subclass constructor matching or not matching doesn't matter. If you want to take values dynamically
to pass the values to the super class then in subclass also we are taking with the same parameters. Okay. Now see here
what you write super of the same parameter name comma height comma
weight. Now program is compiled. Again I'm asking question program is
compiled because parameter parameter matching arguments and parameters matching.
Is it clear? Wonderful. So tell me how can we complete inheritance? Whenever
you see a question on inheritance in the exam will you see only extensive keyword
or will you see the super call also? The super call argument must match to
the constructor available in the super class. If matched then find the flow of execution and complete the output. If
you find matching is not done directly go and choose the compile time error and come out and then now tell me
inheritance is successfully completed. Yes. So inheritance is developed not
only with extense keyword extense keyword and super call. Okay. Two things. And now tell me what is
inheritance? Inheritance is the process of creating a new class deriving from an
existing class for obtaining type properties and behaviors of the super
class to subclass for extending or implementing super class functionality. That is the definition. So tell me what
I did here. I have obtained the type properties and
behaviors. Now I want extend. Extend means add more properties and tell me
according to subclass requirement I am adding more properties private
static string institute
the student belongs to one institute now next private
in student number private string student name required or
not required not required already name is inherited from the person directly what you write quotes and next private
double uh now tell me I want initialize this is static field for that I'm taking static
block uh now institute for the time being I am hard coding this institute
later I will teach you how to assign dynamically okay now institute nit uh
Next. Next. I want to initialize course and
feed. To initialize course and fee, what we require? Constructor. Constructor.
Already we have a constructor with the three parameters for initializing which properties. Student class properties are
it's a parent class properties. Uh to initialize student properties, I
must add more fields. What the more fields? Student number in student number
string course and then double C. First three fields we are passing to whom?
Super class. First three fields we are passing to the super class for initializing. Remaining three fields I
have initializing the current class.
All you guys understand? So subclass constructor is defined with how many
parameters? Six parameters. Why six parameters? Three parameters are
belongs to super class. Three parameters are belongs to subclass. Then in the constructor logic I should pass the
three parameters to super class constructor by using super keyword. Remaining three parame three parameters
I have to assign to current class fields. Clear? This kind of code daily you are going to see in the coming
classes that time you should not confuse. Okay. Right.
This is student on Java.
I'm done.
I Why you are not eating food directly in the cooked dish? Why you are taking into
the plate?
That is the design. Class level only we should have
declarations. Initialization should be part of blocks and constructors.
Understood? This is the right design. Even if you write here directly nar ID then compiler
software will move that declaration into the static block. Huh?
Huh? What are you doing? Sitting silently
after initialization complete and next word etc method get method right
for institute variable static etc. non-static etc.
static setter method and static method for institute variable.
I have written comment side passing to super class constructor initializing
properties in subclass. The next what you write public
static return type is v method name is set institute of
institute of word string
institute Open bracket closed bracket. Uh class
name student dot institute equal to
institute. Next public
static return type is what? String.
Get
institute return
institute.
Next. Public
wide set SN intro
open bracket closed bracket. This dot SN equal to SN
public in get SNO
return SN.
Next. Public wide
set course string course.
This dot course equal to course public string get
course return course.
Next
public void set a p
Okay. Copying a writing.
Copy. Copy. Copy master.
If you copy, you'll become copy master. If you write, you'll become developer.
online students completed a
uh now set fields declaration completed initialization completed. Next. Now 1
second here. What is there? Inheritance,
comma, subtype creation.
Here what are you doing? Adding more
properties as per student
functional
definition. Inheritance definition. If you remember then the code connection is easy.
Can you add here passing above if you have space calling and passing?
Calling and passing. Calling super class constructor to initialize properties in
superass. So inheritance means what? extending and calling super class
constructor. Uh now this all initialization purpose.
Okay, this is all initialization purpose. Now tell me after this we have to write behaviors. Now behaviors are
nothing but business logic. Listen first public why listen
please listen don't write public why
reply
Okay. Now these four operations are business logic operations. Nothing but
new behaviors adding behaviors as per the student functionality. Now the question this is called adding
these methods extra is called reusing a extending
in this code up to anywhere. Have you reused the existing class members? No.
Just we have developed inheritance and extending the person class functionality
by adding more properties and behaviors. Listen. While implementing these
properties compulsor have to reuse the existing properties of the object. Why?
Look at here. System dot out. Ln who is listening?
Student. Who is the student name?
Who is the student name? Har is listening. Har is replying. Har is
writing. Hurry is reading. So where the name information you stored in the
current class or super class? Super class property s belongs to subclass only. Can I access superclass property
in the subclass directly by its name? Uh I'm writing name plus double quotes is
listening. What is listening plus course
or Java only listening? Oracle is only listening. Which course you are listening that course name is listening
course. Tell me is this program compiler not compiled?
Everyone everyone the moment when I write automatically your mind should connect to that particular concept name
plus is listening course is it compiler not compile here are you are you
creating neyr are you accessing namer then compiler search for this name variable in which class current class in
current class name variable available and searching in super class in super
class is a name variable is available yes then successfully compiled
What members of super class you can access in subclass? All members of only private members are non-private members.
Every member available in the super class can access. No, only visible members we can access. Invisible members
we cannot access. So because it is a private compiler will call nearer and slap you. Try fellow what did you learn
next day? name has private access in person. Then tell me how can I access
private members of one class in another class by change the private to publica by
using getter methods. Uh so tell me in place of name what I should write get
name get name plus is listening course any error for course variable no should
I use a get course method no because we are accessing in the same class understood right or no here what are you
doing adding more behaviors
as per student functionality
How? By reusing the super class properties.
Here we got reusing. So finally what is the purpose of inheritance? Reusing a
extend and reuser. Uh here we got the concept called finally you have seen practically extend
plus reuse.
Uh in reply get name is replying
two plus double quotes questions.
Next get name is
writing for Java. Nodes
get name is reading
for Java nodes.
You have see object- oriented programming means just converting real
world operations as a program. So what are the programming elements required? What are the statements I have to write?
Just you should able to visualize thoroughly and write. That's it. Just your connection to the concept is
important. If you connect to the concept writing programming, object- oriented programming is very easy.
Will you type this entire project in your system? Will you type it as a just a programmer
or converting real world to programming world feel real world? In real world I have a
person. I have to declare a class called person. In real world person has a properties. Person properties we cannot
access directly. So we should declare it as private and with the permission of person I can access. For that we have to
provide static block instance block constructor etc. Getter method. Person has a operations. operations I had to
implement by using methods. Just convert real world, visualize real
world and write in the programming world.
completed. Now what next?
Business operations completed. Next one is what? Display
completed. Huh?
We must say course unable to attend then how fullstack Java 6 months you can learn
how company for 50 years life you can work
question understand students are not having interest of continue the course till end middle only
they will dropped when they are dropping why they are attending the why they taking admission why are they continue the course I don't
know huh such a nice people are having initiative
now when we were learning Java we used to give
our entire time for Java
class. Understand my point? If I got any health
issues, we'll go to class. In the class, if I need to die, I will die in the class, not in the room. But now people
are giving so many excuses, stupid worst excuses. Huh?
Okay. Now tell me now I have to print only student details of person details
also person details plus student details when you go to school school people are
taking your personal details blood group all your personal details also they will collect now and also printing on ID card
now tell me for printing I have to use what method overriding private public string two
string right along with Open bracket closed bracket.
Uh what I write return first what I should return
person class details. I have to return person class details to return already logic available in the person class. Now
uh then what I should write? I should write the logic again. I should reuse this logic. Reusing and what I have to
do? Reuse means call. I should call this two string method here.
If you call two string method directly, compiler consider this two string method become this two string method and it
become recursion recursive call. Uh tell me will you allow recursion? No, this
two-string method I have to differentiate from subclass two string superclass two string method. I want to
differentiate from subclass two string method. How to differentiate
class name? It is a non-static method. This keyword, this keyword refers to
current class. Huh? This keyword refers to current
class. What class member you want? Super class member. Huh? Super dot.
If you write super parentheses, you are calling super class constructor. If you write super dot, you are accessing super
class variable and super class method. If you want to differentiate class level variable with a parameter this dot. If
you want to differentiate super class variable or super class method with a subclass variable or subclass method,
what keyword I have to use super dot hey
plus double quotes plus
and then down we have to write double quotes. Uh what details these are?
Student details.
First person details are displayed. Now student details.
Student number plus
student number.
Student name plus student name.
Course plus course
institute also there. No. uh you can write down. I will write here
institute 4 + 4 + oh my god many characters coming
I should add what two/
you write code and later adjust in your system
after course semi
M uh institute.
Hey, s name is not there. No, in the flow I have written you also written a
uh course and field.
program is compiled successfully. Now tell me what completed person object with a subtype. Can you write faculty
also by your own? Copy paste student and implement faculty. Okay. Write down faculty. Java
leave on page
faculty on Java
faculty on Java uh look at here I will write okay faculty belongs to institute or company company uh faculty number or
faculty ID or faculty number faculty ID uh let A faculty number. Uh next course
place department fee pays salary. Next here company
company is Nish IDA. Uh next any change here in the constructor
faculty any change in these three properties? No because faculty also has name height. And next here faculty
number department salary and any change in this line? No.
Here faculty number faculty number department
salary salary uh here oh my god set method get
method I have to change I'll change later after class
I don't have time now uh then admin also you can develop by your own okay then now let's go to the
Next one is what? Party. Write on party java.
Party is a main class or main class.
Party is not main class. Party will execute party. No, party will not execute party. Party
will execute by organizer. Uh tell me here why party contains a method called
what? Eat. Then here people are coming who who are you allowed? Person once
they come to the eat operation what they do? P do eat. After eating
they're only sleeping. Uh some people there only will sleep right
in party. What person will do? Happily eat and drink fell down there only right on no
problem. P eat sleep. Whichever the person coming here we are asking them to please eat and further happily you can
sleep here only. If you don't want to provide sleep operation remove it your wish and party
class completed. What relation this is? Is a has a
has a more specifically uses it.
People are calling as a generally but uh it is what uses it.
Okay. Uh now completed.
Now finally main method class. Main method class class
party party organizer.
He is organizing the party. Inside this party I need one person. You want
individual person student type person? Student type we will take student S1
equal to new student. Tell me whenever last class I told whenever we run this
main method class compiler has seen student s1 equal new student then
compiler software automatically compile student class.
No s it's called auto compilation.
When compiler has seen student class compiler searching for student java found compile student but student is
extending from where person then compiler searching for the class called person then first person class is
compiled first person class is compiled then student class compiled then
faculty class compiled. Where did you link faculty class? And then party organizer class is compiled.
Save it. Control one. Compile.
Constructor student is not available. Yeah, we forgot. And tell me student
class contain no param constructor. No, we have to pass parameters. How many parameters?
Six. Student number, height, weight,
name, fee, sorry, course females I'm passing,
control one compile successfully. Go and check how
many do class files are created.
Party organizer internally accessing student internally accessing person read.cl class files faculty compile. No
party compile. No because these two classes are not used in party organizer. Not used in person. Not used in student.
Okay. Uh now let me write
no param constructor at least to compile time error for re uh revising purpose.
Compile time error no param constructor is
is not available in class student.
Okay, then we have to create object by using parameterized construct. And now I'm
passing the proper values. Now I'm hard coding. Later we can read from the keyboard and pass HK
and uh name height uh height how much
height 6.1 okay at least in the program let me
visualize bigger. Okay. Next. I want people should get fear by seeing me 200
kg. Okay. Uh next uh student number one
course full stack Java development team 18,000
one student ready. I want to print the student. I want to print the student. So
what I write S1 if I pass S1 implicitly what is called
S1 to string then output printed
values are nothing but what we call state object state is printed
state is nothing but values control one compile control
Look personal details, eyes, ears, hands, legs. These are initialized from static
blog. Name, height, weight initialized from
constructor. Not from the not not non-study block from the constructor. Next, student details. Institute,
student number, course and fee. These are the institute is initialized from
static block. These three are initialized from constructor.
Here course variable only one slash is sufficient.
Okay. Now so tell me personal details and student details. These are coming because of two string method we call
super dot twing. This is coming because of our two string. Uh next now I want to
send the student to the party. I have to create object now party t1 equal r party
equal to new party. One new party started to this new party. Party dot eat
operation purpose. I'm sending what student object passing
student object as percent type allowed or not allowed
allowed control one compiled control to executed. Look at there. Uh
HK is eating completed sleep. Okay, clear my point
right. And now as a student you also perform other operations. You can write
S1 dot listen
S1 dot reply S1 dot read or write a write S1
dot read
control
Uh can I write here one message for your understanding? System.out.printn
double quotes p1.get name plus is in party. Can I
write like this message? For better understanding control one
P1 sorry P now control one compile
any class at 11:00 do you have control one control
now look at here HK is in party in party eating after eating completed sleeping
there only because uh fully hangover HK is less listening. HK is replying to
fullstack Java questions. HK is writing fullstack Java notes. HK is reading fullstack Java notes. Okay. Now, so this
is complete project up to now what you have written I mean what you have learned last two and a half months
almost 3 months. So if you practice this project then your learning style will be
very very very awesome in the coming classes.
next classes you will enjoy very much. If you don't practice then you'll face problem. Okay, I'll upload this code. Go
to the room and practice and come. Thank you. That's all for today class. Hope my
job is completed. Hello.
I done my job. What is my job? Teaching you everything. What is your
job? Forgetting everything. Huh? So tomorrow is very very important
holiday rest day revision day revision day you have to do revision by
developing this project and you yourself think one more project to develop
okay now one more project around this topic around this topic please design your own
example and develop okay thank you that's all for today class
see you all on
We override it in two string method. If you don't override two string method,
you will get reference. If you override two string method, whatever returning from that method, that will come.

