ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Yeah,
last class we are trying to learn polymorphism and we have completed overriding,
overloading, hiding wise polymorphism and we concluded that whenever you see a
method calling statement you should find the method definition
with the given arguments in referenced variable class. Correct?
Tell me if I write like this in which class you will find for the method a A1
equal to new B. Here variable is what type? A class object is what type? P class.
Now here I am writing A1 M1 of A1 M1 of
10. Uh now you will search for the method definition in which class
with the which parameter. Uh what is the meaning of this statement? Search int parameter m1
method. Int parameter m1 method in where
class a uh if available available uh execute.
Execute what method? M1 of int parameter from which class?
uh from class A now class B now depending on type of method
depending on type of the method. depending on the type of the method. Uh
if static, if static, what do you write? Execute from class.
Class A. Uh if non-static method, non-static
overridden method non-static overridden method and then
execute from class B. Okay. And next if
non-static non-static non overridden method
can methods available in the object methods are logic now logics is
available in the class right if it is a non-static non overridden
method uh exe execute from where class A okay so what the important point if
method is non-static overridden method then only execute from class B so all
these points I have already uploaded yesterday same note same points I gave already so please try to revise once
again if you don't remember it you will fail in answering the questions in the exam okay method of overriding based
method hiding based points static method non-static method wise exec uation flow
is very very important. Okay, if you don't remember this statement, you will fail in the interview. I already gave
you examples. Please practice one more time. So today we are trying to learn
method of overloading, method of overriding, method of hiding rules. Can
I overload or hide a method as per my my wish? No, you cannot hide or override
method as you like. Okay, if you try to hide or override a
method, you must follow few rules. What are the rules we are to follow? Let's try to see that. Tell me overriding
means your own method super class method. You are overriding a method means the
method declaration is your declaration or given by super class.
Okay. Now if it is given by super class while overriding that method in the
subclass can you override as you like can you change the declaration of that
method as you like? No you cannot change. If you try to change compiler
will throw error. Uh look at here I want to take a class called a1 which contain
a method called what? void m1. Uh tell me is it a private or non-private?
non-private static or non-static non-static void or nonvoid void method
name is M1 parameter no parameter no parameter throwing any exception no uh
if you find a class with the method like this I wanted to create subclass
deriving from the existing class okay deriving from the existing class then
the subclass must override super class method
with the same prototype or can I do some changes? See overriding means what? The
prototype of the super class sorry the signature of the super class method and subclass method must be same. Okay. The
subclass the signature one the signature of the method in the subclass is same as
the signature available in the super class. Then the subclass method is considered as overriding method. Point
is clear. The method in the subclass signature is the same as the method
available in the super class. Then the subclass method is called what? Overriding method. Now is it correctly
overridden, wrongly overridden? We have to find out. Okay. Only first you have
to consider signature. Once you find the signature is same then now we have to question yourself. Okay. There are four
rules you have to apply. What are the four rules you have to apply? Rule number one. Rule number one, return
type. Rule number two, execution level modifier. Rule number three,
accessibility modifier. Accessibility modifier. Execution level modifier.
Return type. Right? So there are totally how many parts are there? Other than signature, four parts are there. Throws
exception list. Okay. This is method signature. Other than method signature, except method signature, method has a
four parts. What the four parts? Accessibility modifier. execution level modifier return type uh throws exception
list. So when we consider the method in subass is a overriding method. If it's a
signature is same as the method available in the super class then we should consider subclass method as what
overriding method then how many rules we are to follow in overriding four rules.
Rule number one, return type must be same you can't change or co-variant return.
Return type must be same or co-variant return. Rule number two, executionable
modifier should be same. Super class method is static. Subclass also should
be static. Super class method is non-static. Subclass is also must be non-static. Okay. Execution level
modifier static. You cannot add or remove. You cannot add or remove. Rule
number two. Rule number three. Accessibility modifier must be same as
super class. If a super class is default, subclass also must be default. Super class is protected. Subclass also
must be protected. Super class is public. Subclass also must be public. Accessibility modifier must be same or
can be increased. Can be increased. Tell me can I increase return type? No. Can I
change static to non-static or non-static to static? No. Uh then
accessibility modifier can I change? Yes. What I can change? I can increase.
So now let us try to understand one by one. Okay. Now first rule is what? Return type. Return type must be same. I
am taking same return type. Video any compile time error for B1. No compile
time error compiled successfully. Next you have to remember these points okay don't try to understand remember what
the rule number one return time must be same or co-variant return
time must be same or co-variant return so what the meaning of covariant return I'll explain first let us understand
same h now look at here I am taking class called about a2 and I'm taking
class called about b2 which is extending from a which is extending from a2 Uh now
tell me the return type return type I am changing to what end and added return
statement return file. Is it valid or not valid? Not valid. Why not valid? What is the rule? Compiler is telling us
don't change the return type. Super class method return type subclass method return type must be same. If you try to
change compiler will throw error. What that error? M1 in B2 cannot override M1
in A2. Return type int is not compatible with var. Return type is talking about
assigned to a variable or not. Super class method return type is what? Y.
Then subclass method return type is what? Int. Then you are returning the value five. How five can go? Void not
possible. Right. So super class method return type is void means subclass method return type also void. Super
class is telling that I don't want return any value. Subclass is telling I want to return value. Then create your
own method. Don't override me. Your father already told there is a one policy. But as a child you are trying to
change the policy. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. You are either takes you must carry the same policy. If
you try to change it is not allowed. So what the rule number one? Return type must be same. Video to void allowed.
wide to int allowed or not allowed not allowed. Now I'm taking another case class A3. This is error commenting. I'm
taking class A3 whose whose return type is what? Long. Now I'm taking a B3 which
is return type is long. Allowed or not allowed? Allowed because return type I maintain same return type. Now in
subclass I'm changing return type to double. Allowed or not allowed? I am increasing the return type long to
double. Allowed not allowed. Compiler throw error. Why? return type must be
same. M3 in B3 cannot override M1 in B3 cannot override M1 in where A3. So M1 in
B3 B3 method cannot override M1 in A3. Why? Because return type double is not
compatible with long. So if you change return type compiler throwing error. I'm
changing same return type long. Any error? No error. Okay. Let me decrease the return type from long to int. Long
to int allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Not allowed. Compiler throwing error. Don't show your talent. Don't use
your brain. Compiler clearly told you. What is that? Return type is not allowed
to change. Return type must be same. So either you change it to increase to double or decrease to in not allowed.
Compiler throwing error. Clear my point? Now I am taking something like this.
Here I am writing one class called P. What is the class name? P. I am writing
a class called Q which is extends from Extends from P. Uh tell me now P and Q
are primitive data types or reference data types. P and Q are the classes.
Class is a data type. Class is a user defined data type. Primitive type or reference type reference type. P to Q.
This Q is what? Subtype. A Q is called what? Subtype. The subtype from the
return type point of view also can be called it as co-variant.
Okay. What we call co-variant. Subclass subtype is also called is also called is
also called as subtype is also called as co-variant. Okay. Now observe here I'm
going to write class sorry I'm going to write class
A41 let me take class A41 inside this class I am creating a method I'm
creating a method with return type P M1 open bracket return new P any confusion
in this line any confusion can me have a return type
class name or not Yes, if return type is class name, what should I return? Object. Okay, I'm returning object. Any
compile time error? No compile. Compile successfully. Now I am taking
I am taking a class called a class called B 41 as extends from A41. Uh now
everyone should answer now. If you don't answer, you will not understand.
I want to override this method. Same signature. My requirement is I want
to return super class is returning P object. I don't like I want to return Q object. Can I change the logic or not?
Yes. For changing logic purpose only we are overriding. Right. Uh now what is
the return type here? Returning object is what? Q. Uh what is the return type
here? What the return type of method in super class P. Then what is the rule?
Return type must be same. So I'm taking the same return type P. Why are super
class? Can I return subclass object? Yes, subclass is a super class type. So
I can return superclass object via sorry I can return subclass object via
superclass type. So what is the rule number one? I wanted to return. Okay, P
object. Then take the class name P as a return type and return what? P object.
Next I wanted to take a subclass. Subclass wish to return Q object. Can it
override M1 method and return Q object? Yes. Then I am going to change. I'm
taking one more class called what? C C41 extend C41. Because I am returning Q
object. Can I change a return type from P to Q? Allowed or not allowed? Come on,
everyone should answer. Allowed or not allowed? Tell me. Long to double, long to int allowed to change or not allowed?
Not allowed. Similarly, am I allowed to change it? Uh, tell me P2 Q allowed or
not allowed up to Java 1.4 version not allowed. From Java 5 version onwards,
from Java 5 version onwards, it is allowed. Okay. From Java 5 version onwards, it is
allowed. So what the rule number one? Rule number one is the return type must
be same or must be co-variant. Return type is called co-variant only in
what case? Superclass subclass same. Subclass is also called as what? Co-variant return. Is it clear? Uh so if
super class method return type is super class super class method return type is
super class in a subclass I want to change the return type is it allowed
allowed from which version onwards Java 5 version onwards it is allowed uh now
tell me I am taking class D41 here I'm taking return type as object what is
object object is the super class of pina uh can I Changes return type from super
class to its super class. Not allowed. Not allowed because super class is not a
co-variant. Who is the co-variant? Only subtype is called what? Covariant.
Everyone understand? So repeat once again. What the rule number one? Rule number one return type must be same or
co-variant return. Covariant means what? Subclass.
Subclass type. Subclass type is called what? Covariant in primitive data types
co-variant is applied or not applied not applied only it is applied to what super I mean a class only to the class it is
applied to the primitive data types it is not applied for example long to int not possible in to long not possible
compiler throw error uh P2 possible yes P2 object possible not possible
so this is the first rule you have to remember on
Return type con rule number one on return type return type
on return type. Now what the rule return type must be same or
covariant return. Okay. Rule number one. This is the just practice after going into room one more
time by heart this one practice and remember if you remember this then only you can pass interview otherwise you
will fail. Then rule number two rule number two is on what execution
level modifier. Rule number two on execution level modifier. So what the execution level modified static the
keyword static must not be added or removed. What the
meaning of it? You must override static method as a static. You must override
non-static method as a non-static. So tell me this M1 method is static or non-static? Non-static. Now I am trying
to override as a static. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. compiler will throw error.
M1 in a D. I have to comment this one. This is error.
Uh M1 in B5 cannot override M1 in A5. Uh now overriding method is static.
Overriding method means subclass method or superclass method. Subclass overriding inform means subclass. Okay.
Subclass method is static. Okay. Commenting. Now I am taking class A6 and
then B6. Super class method is what? Static. Then subclass method what I have taken non-sted or not allowed. Not
allowed. Compiler will throw error. Okay. Look at the compile time error. M1 in B6 cannot override M1 in A6.
Overridden method is what? Static. Overridden mean subclass superass. Super
class. Superclass method is static. So subclass also must be static. Now I'm taking
class I'm taking class uh C6 or C5 C5 inside class C5 I am
overriding method M1 as a non-static method return some value
seven uh allowed or not allowed allowed. Next I'm taking uh
D5 which is this is extends from A5
and I'm taking C6 extends from
A6. Uh now this method I'm overriding as a non-standing. This method I'm overriding
as static. So I overridden non-standic method as a non-standic. I have
overridden static method as a static. So no any compiled error or no compile time error. No compile time error. Okay. Now
if you just sleep in the class later in the entry room also you have to sleep.
Okay. Now reply if you answer allowed or not
allowed if you answer then you won't sleep. Okay. If you are sitting silently you will
sleep obviously. Reply. Reply. Okay, these are the rules. No, you have to remember.
Now, what the rule number two? Come on. Rule number two, what?
Why you are hugging the bag? Is it going anywhere?
Hi everyone. Come on guys, reply.
Now next important rule is on accessibility modifier. Look at here.
Accessibility modifier is what? Private default protected public. Rule number
three on accessibility modifier. What the rule number?
What the rule number three? Uh on accessibility modifier. How many accessibility modifiers we have? What
are the four? Uh private
default is default keyword. Yes sir.
Default is not a keyword. It just a constant. Uh next protected public. If
you don't apply private default protected public then what will come? Default will come. Okay. Uh now look at
here. What is the rule?
Accessibility modifier must be same or can be increased
but not decreased.
Uh tell me your father has given some benefits to the workers in the
factory. Say suppose they are giving education policy, medical policy. The policies
given to the workers. Now you have taken power of from your father. Now you are
adding more policies, more benefits to the workers. Are workers happy?
Now you are going to decrease the number of policies. Then workers are happy. Not
happy. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. So accessibility modifier
default. Then subclass method should be default or can be what? Protected
public. If super class method is a default means it can be accessible in
another class but you are saying not allowed changing it as a private then
private means for increasing or decreasing decreasing. Super class is telling that my method can be accessible
from other classes. My method can be accessible from other classes but you
are coming as a subclass until no you are not allowed from other class. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. We
must follow super call super class rule. Super class method is what method it is
default. If it is a default then uh below subclass method can be private
possible or not possible? Not possible. If you try to change to private compiler will throw error. Look
M1 in B M1 in B7 cannot override M1 in
A7. Why? Attempting to assign weaker access privileges was what?
Public. Weaker means lesser. Lesser access privileges you are accessing was public means what? Previously one is
what? Package. Package is nothing but default. Okay. Uh now tell me now I am
taking this method as a protected method. Uh if you take it as a protected
then what are the possible accessibility modifiers are allowed to the subclass overriding method. Is a private allowed
or not allowed? Not allowed. Default allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Default is lesser weaker access
privileges. So compiler will throw two errors. Look at that. M1 in B7 M1 in B8.
Okay. because it is assigning vehicle access privileges was what protected. Okay. Now I am changing protected to
public. Uh if it is a public means the only allowed accessibility modifier in the subass is what? Public. If you
change it compiler will throw error. Look at the three errors we are getting. Okay. Three errors we are getting. So
final conclusion is what? If you if you overriding a method totally how many
rules you have to follow? Four rules. Rule number four you cannot understand now you will understand in uh what do
you call exception handling chapter. Okay. So first you should understand what is exception why exception and all.
So these are three rules you have to remember. So repeat once again what the three rules. Rule number one return type
must be same or co-variant return. Rule number two
static must not be add or remove. Execution level modified static must not
be added or removed. You must override static method as a static, non-static
method as a non-static. Rule number three, accessibility modifier must be either same or can be increased but
cannot be decreased. So what is the hierarchy level? Private to default,
default to protected, protected to public. Okay, look at here. Now I am
trying to take the method as a private now program compiler not compile.
Compile not compile. Why compile? Correct. Why compile? Because
uh MR method is what? Private. Uh in subclass it can be private same or can
be increased default protected public any error no error no error compile success.
Okay. Now, okay. Now, now my question
is a private method inherited to subclass.
Is a private method inherited to subclass? No. No. Private method is not inherited
to subclass. Here already you know right what type of members we can access in subclass only
visible member what member is visible uh what member is visible only
non-private members are visible it is a private uh now below is this method
considered as overriding method or considered as B7 class own method
uh prove it. Prove it is B7 class one method.
Now program compiled. Now I'm feeling that it is a overriding method. But you are saying that it is not overriding
method. It is a subclass own method. Okay. Agreed. But prove it.
Come on. Come on. Prove it. The method in subclass is subclass own method.
If you buy, if you are taking your father by you have to return it in a
safe mode. Now if you do damages your father will make damages to your body. Now
uh if it is your own what your own bike you are not taking your father bike. If
you damage to your bike is your father will scold you. No it is your bike. If
you do any mistake in on your bike, he will correct it because his money is not putting on your bike. No, I gave clue.
Uh change the return. It is your own method. Now, your method
means you have to follow the overriding rules. Not required. Not required. Look program compiler.
Compile. Change the return type here.
compiler comp because all these methods are what sub override method subclass one method. So
tell me what method is considered as a overriding method private or non-private?
Uh so tell me when can consider the method in subclass is a overriding method. If it is a nonprivate method and
signature is matched to the super class method then it is called what? Overriding method. If the super class
method is a private method and if you override the private method in the
subclass, it is not considered as overriding method. Then do I need to
follow rules? Not not required. Not required. We can change return type. We
can change execution level modifier. No problem.
Everyone understand? Let me try to add these methods.
This is compile time. Now what is the point?
Private method is not considered as overriding method.
Private method is not considered as overriding method. I'm changing the return type. No problem. I'm adding
static. No problem. Any compile time error.
Okay. compile successfully. Okay. So private method is not comes
under overriding. You can take different return type. You can take it as static.
No problem. So that's point also I mentioned here. Note private method is not considered as overriding method.
Then above rules are not applied. If you override private method in subclass it is considered as subclass own method not
as overriding method. And rule number four, exception handling related point.
It is exception handling. We will verify. So now can I expect everyone understand? And now please try to answer
all points about method of overriding. We completed method of override. Point number one, what is method hiding?
Recollect the program. Visualize the program and tell me uh
creating a static method in a super class and subclass with the same
signature is called what? Method hiding. Why method hiding? For
uh changing super classic method logic in a subclass
according to subclass requirement we should hide the method. Next, if I hide
method, when we call when we call from which class it is executed
from which class it is searched and executed?
Sorry, wrong answer. Depending on reference variable type. Depending on reference
variable type. Uh, if referenced variable is super class, search in super class executed from super class. If
reference variable is subclass searched in subclass executed in subclass. Uh
next point what is a method overriding?
Uh creating a non-static method in a super class and in subclass with the same signature is called what? Method
override. Signature means are you seeing the entire prototype of only method name parameters.
Method name parameter same. Then why method of overriding? For changing non-static method logic in a subclass
according to subclass requirement then we should go for method of overriding for changing superclass non-static
methodologic according to subclass requirement we should override. Next
when we call when we call
hidden method. Hm means what? Not headmaster. Okay. Hidden method. When we call hidden method from which class it
is searched and executed. Uh when we when we call overridden method from
which class it is searched and executed. searched in referenced variable class
executed from current object class. If the referenced variable is a super
class, object is super class searched in super class executed in super class. If
reference variable is a subclass, object is subclass searched in subclass executed in subclass. If reference
variable is super class, object is a subclass. Then search it in super class
executed in subclass. Hope you already completed these two points in last class. Remember practiced
can expect all practiced. Next third point
what are the rules we must follow
in hiding or overriding a method. Are there
any different rules? Same four rules are same four rules. Same four rules are there on hiding and overriding. What the
four rules? Rule number one, we should not change the return type.
Return type must be same or co-variant return. Covariant return is only row
super class subasses are considered as co-variant. Primitive types are not considered as covariant. Point number
two, access execution level modifier static should not add, should not remove. Uh rule number three, execution
uh accessibility modifier must be same or uh must be saved or can be increased but
cannot be decreased. Is it clear everyone? Right. So these
are the three points you have to follow in method of overriding. Okay. Huh. Now
next let us try to understand what is method of overloading and tell me what
is method of overloading. All the people know defining multiple methods with the
same name but with a different parameter types is called what? Method of overloading. Visualizing example. Add
int comma in int a comma int b add float a comma float b add
uh string a string s1 comma string s2 like that. Uh
why should we over why should be overload method? Why should we overload
method? Want to perform same operation? We want to perform same operation for
different type of values. then we should overload method. Okay. Then next when we
call when we call which parameter method is
executed which parameter method is executed it is
depended on argument type. Which argument you are passing that parameter
method is executed. Okay. Then next what are the
what are the rules
we must follow in overloading a method. Are there any rules we need to follow?
Overloading method is same as existing method or new method. Come on. Overloading is the same method.
New method. Same method means same signature. Same method means same signature. Are
you maintaining same signature? Then signature change it means what? It is a same method or new method. When it is a
new method, do I need to follow overriding rules here? Return type must be same. Execution level modifier must
be same. Need to follow? No, not need to follow. No need to follow. Observe.
uh observe here I'm creating class called a9 inside this class I'm creating method
called ymon I'm creating another method ymon
compiler not compile
come on guys come on come on compiler not compile why not compile
same signature. Two methods are with the same signature.
Method M1 is already defined in class A. Tell me it is a overload loading of
overriding. Overriding. Can we do overriding in same
class? No, we cannot override in same class. It
leads to compile time error. where I can override only in subclass
wide m I'm taking with a uh tell me is it right is it now overriding or
overloading overloading can be allowed in same class
why because different signature
different signature meth different signature method So it is allowed. All are you following her? Now tell me again
repeating when you create a method I am creating another new method with the
same signature. Is it allowed or not allowed? Not allowed because it is a overriding method. Overriding method
means same signature method. Overloading method means same signature and another signature another signature means name
is same but the return type is different. Okay. Sorry. Name is same but
parameter must be different. So tell me what are the rules we must follow in overloading method. Name must be same,
parameter must be different. How many rules are there in overriding or hiding?
Four rules. What are the four rules we must follow in hiding and overriding? Uh
what are the rules? How many rules? Only one rule. What is the rule? What is the
one rule we must follow in overloading a method? Uh what
arti gupta arti gupta
Arti Gupta,
can you unmute? Yes sir.
Can you hear me? Please speak louder. Yes.
Am I not uploading the notes? No sir,
I can't hear you. Come nearer to your mic. No.
Speak now. Actually after recussion chapter.
After after recussion chapter you are not upload. Not uploading.
After which chapter? Recursion. Recursion chapter. So maybe from that
day you are not coming to the classes. That is your problem. Not my problem. Already upload
after recussion chapter onwards you are not coming to the classes. You are happily enjoying your room.
No sir I'm coming. You're coming then sleeping in the class.
I don't know but to my Google why you don't know
why you don't know that's what the problem with you guys when 200 people
know why you don't know that is the problem with you guys coming to the class join the class sleeping in
the class happily that's
Whenever you feel free come join the class. Whenever you are not feeling good then not join the class. In the middle
getting up from the class. Whenever you want you will go. You will not stay till end of the class. Then how will you get
the information? Actually my Google classroom
after you are Google you don't have separate Google class. Other people don't have separate Google class. All people are
having same Google class. Clear my point? Yes. Uh you people are not active in the
class. That's why you're missing the information. I created new Google classroom for all the students. You guys
are not coming to the class or after coming even coming to class also you are not active in the class.
Is it clear? Daily I'm telling all people are receiving the material. If not send me WhatsApp number, tell me
your details on my WhatsApp. So you you people are not active in the class.
That's a problem with you guys. Okay? Be active at least now onwards.
Okay guys, come back to the class. Uh so tell me now what the rule we have to follow in overloading multiple rules of
only one rule is there. Only one rule. What is that one rule? Method name and
parameters must be same. Method name and parameter must change. Method name and
parameter must be different. Method name must be same. Parameter must be Now tell
me I am writing here int i1. Compiler.
Compile not compile. Compile.
Compile not compile. Why not compile? Why compile? Method name is same
parameters. Parameter is different of blind fellow.
Blind fellow parameter is different.
Same different you are saying
same or different. What you should consider parameter type of parameter name
parameter type. Why name you consider? Compiler. When you write here m of five,
compiler is reading this method as m1 of i
of a mmon of in m of in m of int. When you call mmon of
in compiler come to your phone there are two mmon of int methods are available then it got short and throwing error.
Understood? Uh so now tell me can I have same parameter type? No parameter name can be
same can be different. Don't consider parameter name. We should consider only parameter type. Repeat once again what
the rule on method of overloading. Method name and parameter types must be
different. Okay. Now I'm writing like this. M of int a
b. Is it valid? valid and not valid why
parameter list is different overloading now I'm writing here I'm writing here
float a allowed or not allowed allowed or not allowed allowed why
allowed parameter type is different parameter list is different okay now I'm
writing here enter
Uh I am now tell me this method is overloading method. Overriding method.
Overriding method. Overriding of overloading of parameter
is same or different. When parameter is different this method is what? Overloading.
Uh now tell me the overloading method return type I have changed allowed or
not allowed. Guess guess allowed or not allowed. I
told overloading we should follow only one rule. What the rule name should be
same parameter type or list or order must be different. No need to consider return
type because it is a different method. It is a different method. No problem.
Now I am adding static static parameter different I have
written. Uh allowed or not allowed? Allowed. No problem. Compile successfully. Okay. Now I'm writing I'm
writing private allowed or not allowed and I'm taking different parameter say
long a not allowed allowed. If method is a overloading method, we no need to
follow any rules on return type, execution level modifier and
accessibility modifier. We should only look at signature name should be same
and parameter type or list or order must be different except that remaining all or what? No need to follow either same
or different. Is it clear? Now I'm writing one statement. Please everyone think and tell why it m1 of inta uh tell
me is it compile or not compile come on compiler not compile not
compiled why because same parameter typed now I'm changing return type to
string can I overload a method just by changing the return type no if method is
a overloading method I can change the return type just by Changing the return type. Just by changing the return type
overloading possible or not possible? Not possible. Compiler will throw error.
What the compultor error? Method is already defined. Method int is already defined. So what is the important point?
If you overload a method means if the parameter is different, I can change
return type, change execution level modifier, change accessibility modifier, decrease or increase no problem. But if
just by changing the return type, I cannot overload method. So compiler throw error. What the third point? Just
by changing return type or execution level modifier, accessibility modifier
can we can we say it is overloading?
Uh can we say it is overloading? No. Compiler throw error method is defined.
So if you want to say something is a overloading what you have to consider compulsory parameter should be
different. Hope you all understand overriding and overloading all points. Okay. Now all these points notes I will
upload including rules, notes and everything slides expecting everyone to practice. If you don't practice you will
fail in the interview. Okay. Now I'll write one small program here. Please try to answer
class test.
Quiet.
I'm taking some domain names. Don't focus on the names. Focus on the concept.
I am overwriting super class method here.
I don't want high to print. I want the print hello.
Okay, I'm calling. Okay, let me take it as test case
and here I'm writing class test public static wide main of
Hopey people remember flow of execution of overriding method
and it is a non-static method non-static method overriding method. So I'm taking
test case t1 equal to new test case
implariable type is super class object type is what
subclass uh tell me what is the output you will get from here
hi or hello what is the output you will get hi or
hello everyone should Answer. Ha. Hello. Now
hello. Hi or hello. Simple code. There is no
complex. Hello is the output. Isn't it? Control one.
Compile. Control 1. Compile. Control 2.
What is the output? H. Hello. No,
your answer is wrong. Why your answer is wrong?
Because we show our talent. Because we are a blind person.
Yes or no? We are the blind person.
P small letter cap.
P is a small letter. Then how is it a overriding method?
Understood? What is a overriding method? Method
signature must be same. Method name and parameters must be same.
Java is a case sensitive. small P not considered as a capital P I'm taking it
as I impl
you unable to figure out then leave it what can I do if you cannot figure out
What should I do? Tell me. I will do. If you unable to figure out what I can do,
what clarity I can give? Already gave the clarity. Go and read the notes. Huh? What is the output guys? I uh now tell
copy paste. Test case 2. Now I'm taking the P is
what? Capital letter P. uh if I take capital letter P
and create second object test case 2 test case 2 and now I'm calling what is
the output we will get now hello compile and execute
what is output coming hello everyone understand when you go to Dr. Dr. You should tell
him what is your problem. If you ask the doctor, you figure out what is my problem. How can he figure out
you should know what is your problem first?
So if you don't read inheritance notes, if you don't remember, that's problem right. You have to
correct your brain. I am in two hurry. Okay? How I am too
hurry? Tell me. I will correct it.
How I'm teaching first? You tell me. I will correct it.
Yeah, you can unmute and correct. Correct my mistake. I'm ready to correct my mistake.
What? No.
You cannot just tell okay if you are just telling how can I correct my mistake I don't understand
don't tell just about day where I am going fast how I am going
fast how I how you why you are feeling I'm going fast tell me I will correct my mistake. I'm telling you
uh today class you take tell me how can I decrease the I mean what I should do in today class tell forget about past is
past okay today class you tell me what should I do
unmute why you are not unmuting
I am not asking all people. I am asking you only why you are comparing you with others.
Today class how I should teach? Tell me. I will teach. I'm telling now I'm going
to teach you you only not others. Okay? Leave it about others.
Unmute first so that I you don't waste our time.
Uh today I'm teaching slow. Hello. Good morning sir.
Huh? Sir from yesterday you are teaching little fast.
Uh sir from yesterday you are teaching very fast sir. It it it took little bit time
to understand sir. Then why you didn't ask yesterday? Sir I thought that after class I will
read then I will understand but I think I can't understand. Ask after class you realize that you
didn't understand. Sir after class I thought I will go to my room and first read the material
whatever you have given to us. If I will face problem then I will told you definitely tomorrow which is
what I explained yesterday. Sir whatever you are teaching you're teaching. Hey, what I explained yesterday, you said you read. Now, tell
me the headings. So, about polymorphism? Uh, what is the meaning of polymorphism?
Sir, implementing uh showing different behavior whatever you are input giving to the methods.
Huh? Then what I explained program wise that is what sir I am telling you.
You don't know what I explained yesterday. Sir I know what you have taugh
but I think sir it will take little time to understand that's why I'm telling you yesterday I explained create one method
in super class same method you create in subclass with a different logic that is
called overriding change the parameters that is called overloading
then what should I where I went fast body you know how to create method
Yes sir. Same method I created in super class. Same method I created in subclass. If
you create method in super class and subclass then that is called overriding. I told that is a statement. Why you are
understanding statement?
If you change the parameter that is called overloading.
where I went first. You know how to create method. Yesterday I created the
method in super class and subclass. Then I call this method. It has two logics.
From which class it is executed from super class executed or from subclass executed.
In that portion only I have doubt sir that how it is executing from superass.
Sometime it is executing from subclass only. What food you will eat?
Your mother given plate to you. What you will eat? Whatever it will serve.
Whatever object you are creating from that class, it is executed. And sometimes it will execute from
super. Whatever the object you created from
that class, it is executed. If a class object you created, executed from A class. B-class object is created
executed from Bclass. In your plate you have chicken biryani. You are eating chicken biryani.
In your plate mutton biryani is there. You are eating mutton biryani. Right? That's what you told. Same point I'm
telling a class object you create executed from a class. B object is
created executed from B class. Now what is the confusion?
Reply again. You are silent. No sir. Sir, sometimes again you are saying sometimes I'll
murder you now. I'll come to your home. Now what? Sometimes sometimes first of all
come out from that mind here. What object?
What object created here? A object. A class object.
Then from which class M1 executed? A class. What object created? B.
From which class executed? B class. What object created here?
A class. Can you store in B variable? So if inheritance is there then definitely we are going to store. If it
is not there then we are unable to store. You are thinking over. Okay
that's the problem. If inheritance is not there, how did you store B in A?
Okay sir, then then we can can't store A object in B variable. Why?
Because inheritance is there. A is a super class and B is a subclass as well. What you don't understand? Tell me you
yourself confusing your brain. Sir in that part above that part A a a2
is equal to new b in that part sir I want to ask you that yesterday you have just given a program I was out of unable
to think that B object you created above method is executed from B. What is your confusion?
Here I gave you already notes right? Did you read this slide?
Yes sir. Did you read this slide?
method is found in reference variable class. JVM execute this method based on the method type. What the method type
static or non-static? Static method executed based
on object and object is not considered. Object is not considered. So it is considered only
reference variable. Non-static method is executed from
current object. This is not polymorphism chapter. This is methods chapter.
Sir, static static method is executed. Speak louder. I cannot hear your voice. Sir, I want to tell you that static
method is executed from superass. If it is not available in subass, then how it is happening sir? How is it is inside
the subclass? Superass object is created. My students any of you can hear his voice is going. Sir is I'm audible now.
Keep your mic nearer to you. Sir, is I audible now? Sir, sir, I wanted to ask you that in static
method with the help of super with the help of superclass reference variable
and in that superclass reference variable subclass don't cut the words you are cutting the words A B C D E then
I cannot connect the words if we are as a statement. If we are going to store
superclass reference subclass object in superclass reference variable and we
execute static method from superass which is not in it subclass variable
then the static method is executed from superass. I wanted to ask you how it is
executed from super super class. Already I told you rau again you are asking same question. Static method
executed based on object or based on reference variable type is a static
method consider object
static method executed based on object or no object. No object sir.
That's why it is executing from referenced variable class. You call static method by using which reference.
Here you call M static. Money is called with what reference? B
executed from Bclass. Sir, it means that subclass object
contains superclass object. Is I'm right or wrong. One minute. One minute.
Static method executed based on object or without object.
Why you muted surrounding sir? That's why sir without
object static method is executed with here who is object
new. Who is the variable? B. Here who is the object?
New B. Who is the variable? A. Uh then static method executed from
which class? class A then what is your doubt
sir if you don't mind can I so can can I explain the execution flow of that line
only a a is equal to new b sir whenever this this line we execute
then with the help of new keyword with the help of b constructor it is going to
be class class and provide instance and provide
provide me default memories to the B variable and with the help of this inheritance is inheritance is there I
want to just ask you that a class object is created or not sir that's what I am having it out only
can you call to my mobile I'm unable to hear a voice in the mute from the
call on WhatsApp. So after class I will sir I don't no why after class who will be available
after class I don't use WhatsApp s
offline students there is a notice to you every two months we are conducting
screening test exam for the job purpose for only offline students who are taking
admission in offline who are attending the classes offline Okay. Now people who are taking
admission offline attending offline classes for those students we are conducting
screening test every two months. People who will qualify in that screening test
exam we will be we will provide free training on employability skills to get
the job and we will provide placements to you. Understand?
What do you have to do? Come to the class and sleep. Job will come.
Come to the class and sit silently. Job will come. Enter you'll pass. Okay. Now
don't reply. Don't practice after home. After going to home, next class come with all the doubts and confusions. Then
you'll get job. Correct. Correct. Huh? What? Abishek.
Yes sir. I am here only. What are you doing? I ask you call. You didn't call it
sir. I don't use WhatsApp. That's why call something. If you don't have
WhatsApp call normal call. Okay sir. Same actually speaker problem
is there. That's okay. Wait.
Okay guys listen. Uh finally did you all understand the rules in overloading and
overriding? Uh now tell me now I have a class called A. In that class we have
created one method. Now I'm creating class B. In the class B when you see a
method what first you have to consider? You must consider
uh method signature. If the signature is the same then what we consider it as
overriding. If you say overriding immediately what you have to verify
four rules you have to verify. Is it clear? Now let us try to check some examples online.
Method of overriding and overloading.
MCQs
will it work?
Yeah.
Look at here. Please answer these questions.
Which of these keyword can be used to call
Which keyword? Super. What is the process of defining a method in subclass
having same name and type signature as a method in it? Super a class
overriding. Uh which of these keywords can be used to prevent a method of overriding?
Prevent overriding. I don't want allow subclass to override my method. My logic must be fixed. Huh? Final final
static is go to the overriding in subclass. I can override superclass method. Now what? What prevent? Prevent
means what? You should get compile time error. So what is that? Final. Okay. Uh,
next.
Now tell me which of these is a correct way of calling a constructor having no parameters of super class A by subclass
B. Which of these is a correct way of calling a constructor? calling a
constructor means super keyword. Now, which option is correct?
Which option? D is the correct answer. Next. At line number two, in the following code,
choose three valid data types or attributes, qualifiers among final, static, native, public, private,
abstract, producted. What all these are modifiers. Uh now I have a public interface,
static, interface not covered. I'll tell later. Which of these supporting by method of overriding Java? Which of
these is supported by method of overriding Java? Abstraction.
Polymorphism. None of the mentioned. Which one? Polymorphism.
See right.
Okay. Next. This is array. Uh what will be the output of the
following Java program? This class is what?
Can we create subclass? If you declare method as a final, I cannot override. If
I declare variable as a final, I cannot change. If I declare class as a final, I
cannot create subclass. Then do I need to verify further this discussion? directly we have to choose compile time
option number D. Next, what will be the output of the following Java program? This is array not covered.
Next, what will be the following output? Uh now class A int I this is a display
method which is what public. Then now class B extends a uh extends a variable
I J different variable display method no parameter display method no parameter
what is this overriding uh now D OJ2 equal to new new B. Uh which type
reference variable created which object created B. Then obj 2 i equ= 1. Can I
call super class variable with the subclass reference variable when it is not private? Private or non-private?
Non-private. Then j equal to allow a r. What is this a r?
r r is a variable of what type? A. R equal to obj2. Tell me can I store subclass object reference in superass
variable? Yes. R dot display. Uh then tell me what is the output of display method?
control will go here. And now Abisheka
Abishek tell me what is the output of this program?
Hey, where are you going
now? This is the program. What is output? He is calling R dot
display. R dot display means whenever you call a method, this is not overriding chapter.
It is a method chapter Babu. When you call a method, where you have to search for the method?
Come on everyone. Searching, searching. First you have to find the method definition. Huh? Where you have to
search for the method definition? You call with what reference here? R. R
is what you type? A. Then in a class you have to search for the method founder.
Yes. As a static or non-static. Non-static. Non-static means here we
have to create the parameter this. Yes or no? Uh to create this parameter I
have to consider object. What is the object? B. And tell me what is the object you have used to call this
method? B object. Whenever you call method by using B object. Now tell me
this method logic should execute for A. Now for B now for B object is B means it
has to execute for B. Then control is coming to which class? B class. Then what the output will come? J. What the J
value? Two. What the output? Two. Answer is B.
Answer is B. R is reference of type A. The program assigned the reference of
object OBJ to R and uses the reference to call function display of the class
what B. Uh now tell me Abishek did you get some idea now? Still router.
What? Yes. Doubt cleared. How is it clear? Now yesterday also explain say
yesterday you are listening today you involved. That is only the difference. Yesterday also explained same deposit
method parameter reward current object HDFC bank. So it will go and execute from the sub class.
Uh offline students everyone understand daily you are going to face this kind of
examples only in the exam. So what you have to consider method is overridden. If method is overridden you have to
choose uh rules apply display signature is same. Then what you have to verify
return type is same uh public public same then this is a right overriding
then this display method executed from class A or from class B is depending on
the object if A class object is used executed from A class if a B-class
object is used executed from B class. Okay, next
I by I all points covered. Now let us try to see one other website.
I'm I'm done with my topics. Okay, that's why I'm trying to see are there any new questions which cannot answer.
Uh what is the method of overriding in Java?
Huh? Redefining a super class method in subclass. Defining a new method with the
same name in the subclass. Making a method private in subclass. Hiding methods in subclass which is overriding.
Yeah. What is the purpose of method overloading in Java? Creating static
methods. Hiding methods in super class. Redefining methods in subclass. Defining multiple methods with same name but with
the different parameters. D
Next, in a method of overriding, which keyword is used in child class to indicate that a method is a intended to
override a super class method. Now look at here. What is your intention of
writing this method knowingly or knowingly you want to override super
class method in the subclass isn't it? But you shown your typing talent.
Is compiler identified the typing talent? No. Will JVM identify that you did
typing mistake? No. Is this method considered as a overriding method? Considered as a subclass one method.
Then it is executed from which class? Super class. Now I want indicate to the
compiler. It is a overriding method. If I do any mistake throw me compile
time error for that I have to use at the rate override. What I should use at the
rate override. Uh now this is again Java 5 new feature. From Java 5 version
onwards from Java 5 version onwards while overriding a method you add at the
rate override. When you add the rate over right if the method signature is
not same as the method available in the super class compiler will throw error to
the subclass saying that the method is not override or implement a method from
super tile. So this method signature is not same this method is not considered
as a overriding method then remove this. So tell me how can I tell to compiler and JVM. The method in subclass is a
overriding method by using at the rate override. What is this at the rate
override? It is a annotation. What we call it as annotation. What is why
keyword? What is at the rate override? Annotation. So what is the use of this annotation? At the rate override
annotation is used for uh indicating a method is a overriding method. If this
method signature is not equal to one of the methods available in the super class
then compiler throw error saying it is not a overriding method. When compiler throwing this error immediately you will
look at this method where I did mistake. Oh P is a small letter. You corrected or not? When you correct it is executed
from super class subclass subclass.
Uh all people understand at the rate override tell me if you maintain signature is same at the rate override
is required or not required answer my question for overriding a method the annotation at the rate override
mandatory or optional optional if you don't write at the rate override if the
signature is same it is considered as override if signature is not same it is
considered as subclass own method and compiler doesn't throw error if you want
100% guarantee the method is a overriding method and if you are want to get some error if it is not overriding
then I should use what at the rate override all people understand my point right I'm writing small p so that you
will get compile timer and realize that uh now tell me in a method overriding which keyword is used in a child class
to indicate that a method is intended to override a super class method at the rate override method override super at
the rate override at the rate over. What happens when a subclass tries to override a final method from the super
class in Java? Can we override final method? No. If you try to override final method, what happen? Compiler throw
error. It results to compile time error. What is the method hiding in Java? Making a method private. No. Redefining
a method with a different return type. No. Creating a static method with the same name as a super class method.
Defining a new method with the same name in a subclass. Which one? C is the
actually that is not complete answer. Same name and same parameter. Same signature should not say name, same
signature. And next, in the method of overloading, what must be different between the overload method in the same
class? In a method of overloading, what must be different between the overloaded
method in the same class? Name written type accessibility modifier number. the
number or type of parameters. Which method is called during method of overriding in Java? If the super class
method is invoking using the super keyword, which method is called during
method of overriding in Java? If the super class method is super class method
is invoked using the super keyword. If a call method using super keyword method
is executed from where? Super class. The super class method subclass method both methods are called none of the methods
are called. Super class method is called. Sorry, sorry. Super class method is called.
Next. In Java, can a subclass override a private method in superass? No. Private
methods cannot be overridden regardless of the access modifier as long as it's the same package. No, private methods
are not visible to subclass. What the answer?
No, private methods are not visible to subclass.
Can a subclass override a private method from its super class? No. Private
methods cannot be overridden. It is also correct. Private methods are not visible
to subclass. It is also correct. Two answers is given. One is wrong, one is right. Fellow. Okay. What is the result
of the following code snippet? Now come on, show your talent. I don't explain. You only tell answer.
Abishek. You should tell answer. It is your confusion.
array whenever you have seen the method logic don't go to main method directly
I told already first you look at compiler compiler means top to bottom
each and every line you have to verify then first Class parent non-static
method s o ln closed closed now super class right array whenever extends
keyword you have seen inheritance completed further checking you have to do what is further checking what
constructor available in super class what constructor call available in subclass in subclass what constructor
call available super no in super class we have default constructor yes so
inheritance is allowed next to inheritance What you have to verify next two super what you have to verify is
this method overridden in the subclass and tell me is this method overridden in
the subclass? Yes. Whenever you found overridden method in the subclass immediately what you have to verify four
rules written type is same. Yes. Execution level modified same. Yes.
Accessibility modified same. Yes. Finally in subclass subclass correctly
created method is correctly overridden. Now go to the main method. Uh what you have to create here super class variable
with the subclass object. Then searching is in super class. Execution will be
done in subclass. Uh search for no parameter display method in super class
available. Then here what you created this uh now with what object child. Uh
now the now you call this method with the child object means it must execute from where child class then output is
what child everyone understand
up to now any doubts all are confident uh tell me yesterday class today class
are you understood now next in Java what is the return type of a method that
doesn't return any value
What is the difference between method of overloading and method of overriding in Java? Method of overloading only works
with static method while method overriding works with instance method.
You cannot confirm. Wait, method overloading is not allowed in Java. Method overriding is required.
Method of overloading invokes multiple methods with the same name in same class while method of overriding invokes
redefining a super class method in a subclass. Method of overloading invokes
creating new method in same in subclass while method of override invokes hiding super class method.
T you are feeling right. Okay. Now right answer super. Which keyword is used to
declare a method that cannot be overrated in Java? Which keyword is used to declare a
method that cannot override in Java? Final. In which in method of overriding is it mandatory for return type of the
subclass to be same as super class method? Yes or no? Now read all options. Yes, it
must be the same. No, it can be different. It depends on the access modifier. It depends on the method name.
No, it must be same. And next, what is the purpose of super keyword in method overriding?
First you should have your answer in your mind. Super keyword is used for calling superclass method. To make
method static wrong to hide the super class method wrong. To create a new object wrong. To call the super class
method. Uh what is the purpose of added override annotation in Java? To make method static to create new method to
indicate that method is intended to override a super class method. Uh next what is the result of following code
snip same logic. Uh now the variable is subclass object is subass search in
subass execute from subass super keyword matched overriding match
output is what? Child. Uh in method overloading can methods have same name and same parameter types
if the return types are different. What? Just now I told just by changing
return type can I overload method? No, the method name must be different. Wrong answer. Yes, it is allowed. Wrong
answer. No, it is not allowed. Yes, as long as the access modifier different. No. Uh, next. What is the purpose of
Can a method be both overload and overridden in the same class? Same
class. No. Huh?
Can a method be both overloaded and overridden in the same class in Java?
Yes, as long as method names are same.
Same class override.
Understood? How can I override method in the same class
answer and solution? No explanation given for this. Let's
discuss on the
post your comment first. I should log to comment. Get out.
Later I will log. Uh what is a method of overriding Java? Redefining a super class method.
Okay fine. So remaining questions we all practice. All right. So tell me from my side.
Method hiding, method hiding, method overriding, method overloading, what,
why, how, when, when I should hide, when I should
override, and then execution flow, written test question, rules, examples,
everything I have covered. Now it's your turn. You have to practice from the different websites. And if you find any
new point, let me know. If you don't understand, if as long as you don't
work, you cannot understand written test questions to pass. Clear my point.
Again reminding it is a golden opportunity for offline students.
From the day beginning I am saying at least for core Java attend classes offline sincerely attend class and
practice so that you will get lot of benefits. How can I get notes sir?
Again you are asking same first question
I already told send message to my WhatsApp number I will give you the access again you are asking same
question and what should I do uh
uh what I'm saying uh Narid is giving 100% placement
assistance for the Nar students core Java advanced Java Oracle these three
courses you have to complete 75% of the syllabus did you join Oracle
HTML uh core Java Oracle HTML and advanced Java all these four courses 75% if you
complete and within two two and a half months you can complete 75% of these four courses then you can write written
test exam every two months we are conducting screening test exam for placement assistance
So that you will get benefits. So if you pass that written test exam. So written
test exam what are the important questions? First question whatever we are
discussing in the class every question is important. Uh to answer the questions
you have to practice questions. So you have to practice and remember concept.
concept. You have to remember when a question is coming in the exam first you have to see that question what concepts
involved in this question you have to know inheritance polymorphism encapsulation variable accessing method
accessing constructor accessing with the super keyword this keyword Java is that much only class variable method subass
override super class method overload method I hide the method call with this keyword call with super keyword call
with super class variable call with subclass variable so if If you practice around these
topics, any question will easily answer. First get the get the point on what concept. Remember the concept
automatically any question asking you can answer. Tell me all these questions you able to answer because you remember
question sir because you remember concept concept. Okay. And now next this week or
next week when advanc batch is started all the people join the advance of a course and torture advance of faculty.
H I know. Don't worry. Your advanced faculties will not torture you. You and
you don't have chance to torture them. Why? Tell me. They will dictate the notes. Now in the
class live notes they will give. Okay. Now they will explain one word and ask you to write notes. Next word ask you to
write notes. Finally where you have chance to think no chance. Then any confusion? No confusion. Why you are
getting confusion in my class? I'm not dictating the notes and I'm giving you
thinker answer. Think answer. What thinker? That's why confusions will come. Okay,
don't worry. Advanc Java class, war class, HTML class very smooth only class
is confusion really. This is what my my way of teaching. I will confuse you too much. I will confuse you. No doubt in
that confusion will give you clarity. Clarity will give you confidence.
Confidence will give you job. Wow. Job will give you salary. Salary will
give you huh? Marriage. Excellent.
What is your target? Marriage. So all marriage all marriage starts with
what? Confusion only. So as much more you confuse that much more success you will get. Okay. So
that's all for today class. Tomorrow we are going to start understanding the very very important topic. Don't miss
tomorrow class. What is important? None of your business. Come tomorrow.
Is your doubt clear? still your doubt
when you feel I'm going fast or when you feel you are confused immediately ask don't allow me to go to next topic once
I move to the topic to the next if you ask next question I'll get too much angry because you are wasting my time
for the next topic okay immediately stop me whenever you
feel I'm going fast stop me immediately next day if you talk I cannot spend and
find time for you. Okay. Uh thank you.
Can I share my WhatsApp number? Search in the Google.
Search in the Google HK programming world.
Why you are going? You're not coming back.

