ript


Right. Good morning everyone. So last class we have completed uh
variable shadowing. Sorry, variable hiding. What is variable hiding?
Creating a variable in super class and subclass with the same name is called
variable hiding. Okay. Variable hiding.
Creating a variable in super class and in subclass with the same name is called
variable hiding. Okay. Which variable? Either static variable
or non-static variable. Any variable you create either static variable or non-static variable
in super class and subclass with the same name. Then we call it as what? Variable height. Please observe here. I
created a variable in a super class with the same name static ina and I created
non-static variable index in super class subclass same name then what we call
this concept as variable hiding why is it called variable hiding because the
variable creating
a static variable or non-static variable in super class and in subclass with the same name is called variable hiding. It
is called variable hiding because when we access those static non-static variable in subclass or by using
subclass reference the variable value is read and modify in subclass member. It
means subclass variable subclass variable hides which variable superclass
variable subclass variable hides superclass variable. Uh look at here you
are in the subclass inside subclass method when you write a then as per
local preference algorithm compiler searching for that a variable in the M1 method not available then it is looking
in the class in the class it is found or not then it will read only from B class.
Uh now if you access X variable compiler search for X variable in which class current class current method not
available searching in the current class it is available here that means the variable available in class A can able
to see a cannot see cannot see then what is this method non-static method in the
non-static method if you access a static variable compiler implicitly attach what
class name uh if you access non-static variable inside non-static method compiler implicit it attach what this
dot. Now tell me if I hide variable. Now interviewer ask a question. Can I create
a variable in subclass with the same name as super class variable? What is the answer? Yes. If you access uh if you
create variable in super class and subclass with the same name and if you access that variable in subclass then
which variable will come? Subclass variable will come. Is the point clear?
Let me show you the output.
So what values we'll get 30 and 40 we will get
we'll get 30 and 40. Now tell me now the interviewer will ask a question okay
even though I have the variable in the subclass with the same name as super class variable name I want to read value
from the super class what should I do that means how can we differentiate superclass variables from subclass
variables when they hidden how to differentiate uh if I use a subclass reference the
values are coming from subclass if I use a superclass reference then values are coming from Super class people
understand whose reference we use subclass. That's why values are coming from subclass. Use a super class
reference. Then how many references we have to refer to super class? Three references. Number one, super class
name. B1.a value coming from B1. A1. A values are coming from a class. Second
super keyword. This keyword refers to whom now? Current class. Super keyword
refers to super class. Okay. Then observe how can we access
super class variables in subclass and in a test class by differentiating them
from subclass variables. Access hidden variables. Hidden variable
means what? Past tense. Past tense and superass. Uh access hidden variables.
Superclass variables by using super class type reference. either by using super class name or by using super
keyword or by using super class type reference variable A1. Super class type
reference variable A1. Uh now tell me now here I am writing small program class A2
static intal 10 in equal to 20 class B2 static intex.
So same names are available in a in static method where in the subclass in
static method I have written s a can I access static variable inside static
method directly by its name. Yes. Then compiler searching for this a variable
wherein current method not available access from where current class
I want to tell to compiler and JVM go to super class. Then I have to use explicit
reference. when you access the variable of another class that class reference I have to use. So now I'm using a A2. A Then you
are clearly told to compiler access a variable from A2 class. Then control will go to which class a2 class. In A2
class I have a variable. What is the output coming? A. So how to differentiate static variable from
subclass to super class by using class. Understand my point? Then next. Now I
wanted to differentiate non-static variable from super class to subclass array. non-static variable belongs to
class object first I have created object then tell me inside this object we have
only Bclass variables are a class also what is the memory diagram remember this
is B inside B we have A inside A we have object inside A class we have X variable
inside B class we have X variable tell me B reference refers to which class B
class now I want to refer to A class. Uh now tell me there are two keywords are
there. What the two keywords? This keyword this keyword contains what? Current object reference 10. Uh now tell
me this sir sir this is not here static method. Now static method doesn't have this B1 variable. Tell me B1 variable
contains 10 because B1 is of type P. It is pointing to which class? B class.
Now the question is very important A2 A1. Tell me now if you wanted to
pointing to a class I should use whose reference a class reference you want to
point to a class in different object or same object same object. So B1 reference you have to copy into A1 pointing to B
class. Are you catching my point? Right? Then if you write B1 dot value coming
from where? B class. If you write A1 dot value coming from where? A class. So
B1.X coming from B class. A1 do.x coming from A class. So how can we
differentiate non-static variable inside a static method by using explicit
referenced variable? Now very important how can we differentiate
non-static how can you differentiate non-static variable in non-static method tell me in non-static method how to
access static variable directly by its name and by using what class name how can I access non-static variable by
using this keyword right how can I access non-static variable by using this keyword this keyword refers to which
class current class uh how can we differentiate super class variable by using super key So conclusion is what?
Conclusion in what?
Inside subclass number one. In static method, we can
differentiate inside a subclass. In static method we
can differentiate parent class variable from child class variables
by using
by using parent class name and a parent class is nothing but what super class
name or by using
super class. Okay, I can say in all about three ways. Oh no no no in static method, right? Uh by using super class
type reference variable.
Next step and tell me inside a non-static method number two inside
non-static method we can differentiate parent class variable from child class variable by using all about three ways.
I don't want to write all about three ways. These the points I shown. So all people understand. You have to remember
it. You have to remember all these points. Then only you can pass interview. Then next tell me in a test
class. Tell me who is the test class. Super class.
Who is the test class? Object class. Object class. Super class. Test class. Super class is object. Now M3 method I'm
using. Inside M3 method can I access a variable directly by its name? A
variable compiler searching inside where M3 method not available searching inside test class. A variable belongs to what
class A will get compile time error. Cannot find symbol.
Okay. Uh now I am trying to access
I am trying to access non-static variable. Can access directly by name. No. compiler will throw error. Okay,
cannot find symbol. Then how can we access one class members from another class? By using class Pclass static
variable by using B. A class static variable by using A. Any compul error?
No. Next. I want to access non-static
variable. Compulsor required what? Object. Which object? B-class. Object.
In Bclass to point into B memory. B variable. In a B object to point A memory I have to create what? A variable
B dox B class X A.X A class X. Okay. Then tell me inside test class is it
possible to use this dots super? Uh this refers to which class? Current
class. Super refers to which class? Test super class. Who is the test super class? Uh if I write this dox compiler
throw error cannot find symbol x in the class test.
Look cannot find symbol variable X where in the current class. Uh now if I write
here
if I write here superX now tell me super refers to which class super class super
class contain object class contain X variable. No again will get compiled error cannot find s why you are coming
huh now tell me it leads to compile error. So how can we differentiate super
class variable from subclass in the test class by using super keyword? No by using what super class type referenced
variable or by using super class name inside test class means other class. We
can differentiate super class super class hidden members super class A
or else just let me take here super class hidden members from subclass only
only by using super class name or by using super class type reference
variable. We cannot use super keyword because in a test class super keyword refers to what test superass object. So
these points you have to remember. Finally summary I already give one more time here. So you have to practice these
points already. Yesterday we have seen just notes what I have just created. Okay. Uh yesterday I gave the program
all the people completed. Uh let me quickly complete the remaining part.
So totally as part of polymorphism you have to learn four points. Polymorphism means creating multiple variables
multiple methods with the same name. Create variable in super class and subclass. That concept is called what?
Variable hiding. Create method in super class and subclass that is called what? Variable method hiding or method
overriding. Uh create multiple methods with the same name with a different parameter is called what? Method
overload. So four concept variable hiding, method hiding, method of overriding, method of overloading. Okay.
Uh these points you have to practice. What is method variable hiding? What is the flow of execution? What is method
hiding? What the flow of execution? What is method of overriding? What is the flow of execution? What is method of
overloading? What is the flow of execution that we have to complete it today class?
Uh everyone be there online students hope everyone joined. Uh remember before
you come to the class please refer your Google classroom and then come to the class.
Understand suddenly I may give you leave. Okay. So check Google classroom
and then come to class. Okay. If there is a message, if there is no message means class is there. If there is any
message then class will not be there that day I will give you assignment work in the room you have to work. Understand
my point class may not be there but I will give you assignment work. You have to work out. So please remember this
point and don't come to the suddenly to the class and don't scold me saying that you didn't inform me before. Uh look at
here this is the program yesterday we we have verified. Open your notes yesterday program.
uh look at here look at into your program static intx static intx in a
class b class is there and then what we call that as variable hiding now we have static method in superclass subclass
that is called about method hiding we have superclass subclass non-static method what is that method of overriding
okay so once you define a variable hiding method hiding method of overriding you must verify execution
flows, right?
Right. You must verify their execution flows. I can call that uh variable
method either in the same super class or in the subclass or in the test class.
Any of the three classes I can call. Got clarity of once you see a program the
program contains what variables methods uh static non-static variable static
non-static method. The static non-static variables with the same name available in superass
available in the subclass. Then I may call them in the same super class or I
may call them in the subclass or I may call inside user class. Then what is the
output? That is what you have to find out. How can I find by using your brain? By following the algorithm
execution flow algorithm static members execution flow non-static members execution flow. First you have to draw
memory with by following static members and non-static members execution flow. After memory allocated then calling.
Calling execution flow is what? Variable hiding execution flow. Method hiding
execution flow. Method overriding execution flow. Calling memory creation also execution flow is there. And
calling also execution flow is there. Uh calling execution flow. Static variable
value will come from subclass. Super class referenced variable type.
Non-static variable will come from super class or subclass referenced variable type. Static method executed from super
class or subclass reference variable type. Non-static method is searched in
reference variable class executed from current object class. Understand? So
totally how many points you remember? Static members execution flow non-static members execution flow for allocating
memory making the class and object ready. After class and object ready then we started calling them calling
execution flow static non-static variable static method has one flow what is that variable type reference variable
type non-static method has a different flow what is that search in the reference variable class executed from
current object class my point right based on these points variable hiding
method of overriding method of overloading uh variable hiding all these four topics I have around 15 programs I
will share you will you all practice and how to practice very important with your
mind with the execution flow algorithms execution flow and calling flow
algorithms you have to follow okay by following them find output by your own
definitely you'll give a wrong answer no doubt in that okay then you have to realize oh I didn't apply the flow of
execution properly let me recolct once Again what points I have to apply execution flow static members execution
flow top to bottom non-static members execution flow also top to bottom second
calling when you call what I have to consider referenced variable type uh then non-static method means current
object type so if these four points if you apply always you'll get the correct answer clear I will give you around 15
programs around I'm going to give I want all people to work out by your own okay uh now First observe here the con
conclusion subclass reference variable values are coming from subclass if not available superclass superclass
reference variable will come only superass static variables non-static variable static method from superass
only non-static method from subclass next uh now calling time first program
test class is loaded test class static variable static block main method uh then I create an object of my subclass
subclass object if you Quanticate super class also required. Then subclass subclass trying to load but found
extends from a super class also loaded. Super class subclass both are loaded. Then super class to subclass static
variable top to bottom memory allocation. Then initialize top to bottom. Then now new keyword create the
object with a subclass. Super class. It's a super class. Then top to bottom non-static variable memory. Top to
bottom non-static variable initialization. Then reference is written stored and pointing. Why B1
pointing to B class? Because B1 variable type is B. Next, next object. Same flow.
B2. Uh is B class A class again loaded? No. Static variables memory allocated again. No. Then new keyword create
another instance again top to bottom XY variable. Again top to bottom initialization. Then reference store in
2020 pointing to Bclass available in 2020 object. Then next when you write a
a1 equal new B, A object is not created. A variable is created and B object is
created with B class. A class object class XX top to bottom XX 0 replaced
with 20 60. Then 3030 stored in A1. Uh very important in 3030 object A1 variable
pointing to A class because A1 variable is of type what? A. And now uh now
static non-static members execution completed class loaded ready to execute
object is created ready to access non-static members uh now the question is very important
a calling flow calling flow static variable non-static variables are coming
from reference variable class P1 which variable pass 50 replace with 15 P1 dox
Pclass X in P1 object Pclass X and B1 object B class X and B1 object replace
with what? 16. Then next B1. A equal to 18. B class A existing 15 replace with
18. B2.X B class XC in B2 object 16 replace with 19. This is called calling
flow of execution. Consider reference variable class. Then B1. M4. Go to Bclass. Method calling. Search for the
method in Bclass. Found method as non-static. Non-static means we have to consider object. Which object? B1
object. Then what is the logic available inside the method? What are the logic available inside method? Super do a
equal to uh this dot A minus 10. Super A equal to this dot A minus 10. Uh this A
means what? Current class. Current class is what? B class. Right? BL class A. B
class A value is coming uh B class A value is coming. Uh what is
the B class A value? 18. 18 minus 10. Uh 8. Eight stored in super class. Super
type is what? Super class. Go to super class. Just we need to consider what reference variable type. That's all.
Then next super do.x means super class X equal to this dox. This means which
object? B1 object. B1 object X value 16 minus 10 6 copy into super.x where in
super.x current object super class X 20 replace with six. Then control come back
to main method. In main method B2 M4 again you call M4 method then control
come to M4. Same logic with which object? Second object super current
class A 18 - 10 8 copy into super class 8 replace with 8. Then super.X equal to
this doxus 10. This dox means what? Current class X in current object. What
the current object? B2. B2 object 19 - 10 9 stored into current object A class
20 replaced with 9. These are the points we completed up to last class. Yes or no? Somebody is asking June the slide.
Okay. If you miss yesterday class, it cannot be joomed.
Okay. If you don't miss yesterday class, today class, no need to zoom. Okay.
Already written yesterday notes. Uh now everyone completed the next one B1. M3
it's very interesting point. Uh tell me now open your note. Check in your notes.
B1 M3 what you have written? Tell me what is the output?
What is the output? A M3. Why AM3?
Compiler searching for M3 method in Pclass not available. Go to A class. Now
tell me inside a inside a a class M3 method is
static or non-static compulsory object should be considered which object B1 so M3 method logic is
executing for B1 object then what the message printed B1 M3 uh now system outp
a means this A current Class A. What the current
class? A class. Where M3 method is executing? Class A. Current class is A.
What the A value? 8. Uh, next X. X means what? X. This dox. This means
what? Current class. Current class is A. A class X from which object? B1. B1
object. A class X value six. Did you got same output? Then next M1. You are
calling M1 me with what reference? This. Then searching for that method in which class current class in current class M1
method is static and non-static. Static static method execute from reference
variable class output is what? AM1. Okay. Now uh next.
Next. M2. Uh M2 means this M2. Search for M2 which class. Current class.
Current class. Hello. Uh from which class M2 method is now executed?
Current class current object class uh current object. Who is the current
object? A B. Then M2 method execute from class A or class B. Now
okay. Now in a class B now M2 method execution is started. So what is the output? BM2 flow is the same. Uh tell me
M2 method executed from B class BM2 SOP and A. A means what? Current class A.
What the current class A? 18. Uh BX X value what? Current class X in current
object. B class X in which object? B1. What the value? 60.
Everyone understand? Any doubts here?
Abishek, do you have drink habit?
Drink a drinker. No.
No. Drink a habit. Did I say wine drinking, beer drinking?
I said what do you have drinking habit? Huh? What a drinking habit is there? Wonderful. Did you drink? Can you drink
Sprite? Sprite. Sprite or thumbs up
sometimes. Sir, how can you drink directly? Bottle. Bottle. You drink or will you pour the
some part inside your glass?
Huh? That is what that line A a1 equal to B1 means
you have sprite inside. What will B1? Copy into glass A1.
What is your root out? Copy one variable value into another
variable. Copy one variable value into another
variable. That's what I did. What is your doubt there
already written diagram also again you are asking what is the meaning? Explain sir. What should I explain? What is your
doubt?
Huh? Everyone understand M3 method? Tell me now. B2 M3. What the meaning of B2
M3? Suppose if A is not present. Red tumor fellow. That's why I'm getting angry on
you. If A is not present, what happen? If a bottle doesn't have sprite, what happen? What look at your face and said
to me fellow it is empty body how can you access me right such a brainless fellow you are
why you are killing your brain I don't understand
you are behaving like this from the day one if a is not available compiler throw
error no
you are asking like hey you No first class student
Java is today first day like that you are asking question change buddy change your brain
nasty questions don't ask okay now tell me B2 M3
I want to control now I don't want to scold you but based on your questions asking no I'm feeling like a team leader
if you are there in my team
if A is not available what happened how did you ask that question if A is not
there compile time error right
uh okay b2 m3 what are the meaning of This again I'm executing M3 method isn't
it? Uh for which object now? B2 object. Now tell me now what the
flow. Same flow. Now control again searching for M3 method in
B8 going to A8. What the output? A M3. Uh now reading a value. A value is a
static variable. Any difference from B1 to B2? No. Non-static variable. Any difference?
Yes. Uh what is the output? N previously reading from first object now
reading from second object. Next a M1. Any difference from static method? No.
Any difference in non-static method? Yes. Uh non-static method executed from which
class? Current object class. Incurren object BM2. A value any difference? No.
X value any difference? Yes. Previously reading from first object now reading from second object
control go back to main method tell me in main method B1 A1 dox B1A I modified
a variable with B1 then output is 15 15
B1A what I modified here 15
if you show your talent of Look above and get the value finally get what wrong answer you should not look above you
should look into memory in the memory what is the value available 18 a1
I didn't modify a variable using a1 so output is original value 10
8 why a is a static variable if you modify by
using any one of the objects then the modification affected to all objects output is 18 8 understood next
B1.X uh B1.x value B1 modified value will get 16 okay uh next A1.X means
modified value its own value non-static variable you didn't modify by using a
you will get original value 20. So this is the output of this program.
Okay. So tell me in this program if you have any doubts any anywhere ask me you want again I will explain abject
don't ask nasty questions please ask some valid questions because I'm
giving you chance to ask questions don't ask again you know what is this what is super
please but improve your mindset if a is not there what happened
that's not good way of asking questions Bro,
Abishek are your eyes working? I have written already arrow marks.
What is object?
What is object? Object means what? A memory with variables, memory with
methods is a method has a memory.
Then why you are asking that question repeatedly? This is third time or fourth time you are asking
methods belongs to class only in the class methods will be a logic
in this entire 3 months I never see you replied or asking questions thank you so much at least now
you come out of that such a wonderful question asked
Nice question.
What is a flowchart? I don't know.
What is a flowchart? Can you tell me? Then I will try to prepare it.
You know, everyone
Oh, systematic representation of flow of data. Wow.
Okay. Flowchart is a systematic representation of flow of data.
Is it not a flowchart?
How to write a flowchart for this diagram? H
every student want their own path. Okay. They don't come to my path.
They will they are pulling me into their path and later they will cry and make me cry. Such a nice after corona batches.
Brain dead people. All are brain dead people. after corona or before
this is Java flowchart object oriented programming flowchart it depicting okay
this diagram is depicting the flow of data
okay of different variants static variable variant non-static variable
variant end. Okay. Flowchart has a algorithm. You know that
algorithm diagrammatic representation is flowchart. Algorithm is sequence of
steps. Sequence of steps. Notes already gave that sequence of steps. Algorithm flowchart is this. Okay. Now
go and read first algorithm.
Please leave the laziness of your body. Bend your body. Okay? So that everything
will come into your brain. Okay guys, hope you all understand this flow. Still any questions.
With this we completed three topics. variable hiding, method hiding, method
of overloading, method of overriding and then flow of execution. What the flow? Static
variable, non-static variable, static method executed from referenced variable
class. Non-stratic method is searched in reference variable executed from
current object class.
Okay, this is the senos.
This is a flowchart 2. This is algorithm. This is everything. Okay. Static variable, non-static variable and
static method are accessed and executed from reference variable class.
Non-static method is accessed from reference variable class and executed
from current object class. Yesterday you written notes right now with this I done
with my topic variable hiding. Now going to the method overloading. ready and
tell me what is method of overloading. Defining multiple methods
with the same name. Uh these are the four topics we are to learn. What is method of overloading?
Sample program execution flow. Which parameter method is executed? Advantage
or why method overloading? Okay. Sver this execution flow what I am talking is
your flowchart. Okay. Now uh flowchart terminology is a C language. Execution
flow is the terminology is Java. What is method of overloading? Defining
multiple methods with the same name with a different parameters type or list
or order. Understood? Defining multiple methods
with the same name with the different parameters type or list list and number
of parameters different and order int float floating in is called what method
of overload. The same statement I have written here. For example, for adding
two different type of numbers or different list of numbers or
different type order numbers.
We must define all multiple methods with a we must define multiple methods.
Comma all methods with the same name with the same name add with a different
parameters as shown in the below program. Uh observe now we have seen already this add add
then defining multiple methods with the same name with a different parameters. How to pronounce this as not method
creation? We must call it as what? Method overload. These two methods are type different. It is list different.
These two methods are order different. Clear? Okay. Tell me when you create variable
or method or constructor are they automatically accessed and executed? No.
We have to call them. Then once you overload a method, these methods you have to call. When you call, which
method is executed? Uh it is depending on the argument type. Which argument you
pass? uh that argument type parameter method may be available or may not be available. So when we call a overloaded
method, the given argument type parameter method is executed. If the given argument type parameter method is
not available, there is no compile time error. It is searching for what? Matched parameter. What the meaning of matched
parameter? The given arguments same type or it's a higher range type parameter
method. Uh it's a widening type
widening or higher range parameter type. Okay. Higher range
higher range parameter type method is executed. Uh what is the lesser range to higher range in primitive data type?
Bite to short, short to in long float double and carrot to wh
lesser range is what? Subclass. Higher range is what? Super class. Its higher range is object. Uh now tell me I want
to take any of the primitive data type into my method as a argument. Method
parameter should be double. I want to take any class object as argument to my
method. The method parameter type should be what? Object. And now look at here. I wanted to call the methods. Now help me
to call what is the output will come. Uh tell me here I'm going to write
which class method you want execute addition. So I should write addition dot
add of addition dot add of uh I'm not passing any argument. Then compiler
search for which parameter method? No parameter add method in addition class available or not available but add
method is available or not. Add method is available but the given argument is suitable or not suitable then we'll get
compile time error. No suitable method found for add of no
arguments. Available methods are in float float in inflat
float in. So the given argument no argument not matching with any of these parameters hence compiler throwing error
no suitable method found for add of no uh okay then now commenting this next
I'm writing addition add of here I'm passing say five compile or not compile
compile or gaj
you should remember these method prototypes
Five me four methods also if you don't remember five methods also if you don't remember then why you are here above
five methods int into int float float three in two int int float and float in
this is what parameters what I'm passing one argument one argument method is
available or not available then matching or not matching compiler read five as a
five as in enter as int addition dot add of int. No suitable method for add of
end. Okay. Uh now it's match not match not match compiler throwing error. And
next tell me addition dot add of what do you write now? Five 6 compiler not
compile. How many parameters method searching for? What type of parameters?
Inta int parameter method is available. So what is output? add of int comma int
method is executed. So tell me when we overload method when
we call overloaded method which parameter method is executed it is depending on the parameter type argument
type uh given argument type parameter method given argument type match
parameter method given argument type match parameter method executed here I'm
writing single code A single code B now is compiled or not compiled it's reverse
inverse Today you are the lucky boy. Come on,
I'm waiting for your answer. Compile. What is the output?
Apply your algorithm. Apply your flowchart.
What the flowchart? Flowchart is given argument.
Search for the parameters of add match or not matched.
Ask character of care. Huh? Car comma car parameter method is not
available. When car comma car parameter method is not available what it is search for higher range. Who is the
higher range of care? int int parameter method two parameter int method
available. Yes. Then what is executed? Add of int, int parameter method is
executed. Hope you all are run the track now.
Flow chart understander. Uh now tell me next
addition dot add of 10.5,
20.5. Uh which parameter method executed?
Which parameter method executed? Float comma float parameter method executed.
H everyone float float parameter method executed
10.5 what type 20.5 what type then double comma double
parameter method will be executed right there then compiler
no suitable method found for add of double double
compiler be careful method parameter will be
float given argument will be double in the hurry you will choose 10.5 as a
float and will come up as with output it is not float it is a double next
addition dot add how can I say it is a float
uh now compile
understood.
Uh now tell me add of 5 L 6L which parameter searching for long. Long
is not available. Then what is the widening? Then what is executed? Float paramea
6f searching for int comma float. 6f comma 5 searching for float comma in 6f
comma 5 l float comma 5 l is not available long.
So matching with float. So this is method of overloading related
all points. float comma float. So final conclusion
if the given argument type parameter method is not found it's a widening
parameter highest range type parameter method is executed.
Hope everyone clear then tell me. So final conclusion what is the advantage
of
advantage of method of overload? What are the advantage of method of overloading?
We can create multiple methods.
End of question.
What are you seeing the difference between first statement, second statement?
arguments are different. Argument types different
what type arguments then what is your doubt? Here
type is intend. Here also type is in end. Whatever executed for this method,
same method executed for this also. What is your doubt?
Why are you silent? How much time you want?
Hello sir.
question.
Still I didn't get your question.
make me doubt.
Oh no.
Okay,
thank you.
Two times you are calling the same method. First time you are passing 5 six. Second time you are passing 78.
Method executed. Logic is executed top to bottom. Which one line is coming first? That line first executed.
Why you muted?
Sir, sir.
Is this overloading chapter? Method chapter
is this chapter is what? Overloading means
method creating a method after creating method
I am calling the method then why you are getting you know
million dollars question I don't understand they you are not practicing just you are
people are attending classes you are not remembering what you learn in previous chapters every You are
making your brain fresh brain that's why you are getting all
confusions 56 7 8 9 10 every time apply compiler
apply same algorithm 50 20 6 50
60 6
What type of value is it in then what is executed. How many times you call add
method? Those many times method is executed with the past arguments.
Okay. Uh so what is the advantage of method of
overloading? Class subtraction.
I'm creating class called subtraction. Void sub. I want added two integers.
So I'm taking method name as sub ins,
int b. I want to add I want to subtract float
numbers. I'm writing method name as sub floats. Float f_sub_1, float f_sub_2.
Uh
are you feeling any difficulty here?
Not feeling any difficulty. Please feel if you don't feel difficulty then there
is no advantage.
Please feel there is a difficulty.
Please feel there is a difficulty here in this methods creation there is a
difficulty to whom
to the method caller developer don't have any difficulty
method caller has a difficulty what the difficulty Okay.
Uh S1 dot what the name of the method?
Sub in 5, 6. Uh S1 dot
how many method names you should remember?
I told you two. How many will be there? Many. How many names I have to remember?
Many. If this class contain 100 subtraction methods, how many names you have to remember?
100 names. If I maintain the name as a sub sub then
how many names you have remember? So tell me what is the advantage of method of overloading.
What is the advantage of method overloading? We can create multiple methods with the
same name. So that So that we no need to reinvent
new names and also no need to remember
multiple names
while calling.
Okay, C language doesn't support
any of you know C language method of overloading
old versions I don't know latest versions C language doesn't support method of overloading hence in C
language we must create every method with The new name even though
it is even though the new method
performing same operation in Java, in C++
and in Java, means object- oriented programming
languages. ES we have method of overloading support.
So no need to use
new names for creating
multiple methods when they're performing
same operation. Otherwise the problem method overloading
has a advantage of we can create multiple methods with the same name. So
that the advantage is
we no need to advantages are there are two advantages one from developer point
of view another from caller point of view.
We no need to reinvent new names and also we no need to remember multiple
names while calling. That's it. So this is the story about
method of overloading suan practices.
Okay. Already me overloading rules I
explained. No only what you ought to verify
me overloading what the rule only parameter difference I have to show
return type execution level modifier accessibility modifier we don't need to
consider
all the people are in Google classroom Oh,
please everyone verify. Did you get this update?
This Google classroom created on April 23rd. Till now you guys didn't join means how
you are focused and active in the class. Such a nice people you are. Hats up to you.
Today is May 2nd. Wonderful.
Okay. The next topic we need to learn constructor overloading
and chaining. Constructor overloading and chaining.
Now look at here very simple job method of overloading constructor of overloading both are same
Ganga whenever you ask I will not share when I'm sharing you should be in the class okay
uh look at here I'm creating a class with first constructor
with the same second constructor allow in a single class can I create multiple
constructors? Yes.
In a single class can I create multiple constructors? Yes. Uh then
their name constructor name must be same. Now can you change the name? No.
Uh then can I take parameter also same compiler throw error.
Exam constructor example is already defined in class example. So you cannot
create second constructor. Then what the solution? I should show difference in parameters. If I create multiple
constructors with different parameters then this concept is called what? Constructor overload. Uh
tell me what is constructor overload?
Defining multiple constructors
with the can you create with a different name then why you are saying with the same
name? Can you create constructors with a different name? When you cannot create
with a different name, why are you stressing the name and you are giving a lead to the enter? You are ask me one
more question. So your definition must be proper. Defining multiple constructors with
different parameters.
different parameters what type or list or order is called
constructor overloading. Okay, this is the program class example
system out.print
system.out.print ln What is this constructor? No param constructor. Copy
paste. What is this constructor? Int param constructor.
What is this constructor?
String. Yes. String param constructor. Generally a constructor will have only one parameter. So if you want to create
two parameters also you can do that. I'm creating string comma floatf string
float parameter constructor sfpc.
Okay, four constructors I created. So defining a class with multiple constructors with different parameters
type or list or order is called constructor overloading. For example,
okay, tell me if I overload a constructor, are they automatically executed? No. Uh,
then tell me how can we call a constructor? We can call constructor by
creating object equal to new. Which constructor executed?
This is a constructor call or not. Which constructor executed? No. constructor.
When we overload a constructor,
the constructor
execution is decided
based on The type of
argument is passed when it is called where in
object creation.
Okay. So what is the conclusion? The past argument
argument type argument matched type the past argument match type parameter
constructor is executed and tell me is there any difference
between method of overloading and constructor overloading flow of execution? No flowchart is same
algorithm is same. Okay, whichever the word you comfortable use that word and tell me here I am passing what
constructor? No arguments. When I pass no arguments, which constructor executed? No argument
constructor is executed. Control one. Control 2. No param constructor
executed. Babu Abishek there is no object memory diagram here. Okay.
Constructors not comes under object. They comes under class. You call which constructor? Example class. Go to
example class. Go to example class. Which parameter constructor executed? No
parameter. No parameter constructor. You have to run. That's it. Where is object? Show me surrender. I cannot show because
it is a logic. Logic is part of class not part of object. And tell me everyone help me. Uh
if you call this constructor again, which one executed first? This one first executed or this one first executed?
The order we call
not respond compiled executed two times. I can call execution
order is top to tell me next now I'm trying to write example E3 equal to new
example I am passing the value five uh which parameter executed in parameter
constructor control 1 compile control execute
what output in par can I call in param constructor by passing
can I call in interparam constructor by passing the one more argument of seven
yes then which one executed five or seven first which one executed why because
five you are passing first and then seven you are passing in param constructor executed two times first for
the five argument second for the seven argument and next now I'm writing example E5
equal to new example of single code.
Uh which one executed is care parameter
method available? No. Then what is executed? In param constructor is executed. Given argument match parameter
constructor in param constructor is executed.
Okay. Uh next. Now I'm going to write one statement here. Example
E6 equal to new example of double quotes a comma 5.7. Which parameter constructor
executed? String comma double parameter constructor must be executed. Do you
have double parameter constructor? No. Compiler will throw error.
Incompatible dice. Possible loss of conversion from double to float. Uh then what I have to use now
I should pass f compiler now yes string comma float parameter constructor is
executed fsc okay uh next now I'm going to write
one more think and tell me double quotes b comma 5 l or five compiler not compile
compiler not compile Compile five is what type int string int not available. Next searching is what?
String long not available. Next searching for string float available. Then what is executed? String float
parameter constructor is executed. Is it clear? Even if I write five also what is
executed? String float parameter constructor is executed.
Uh so what is constructor overloading? Understood. What is the constructor overloading execution flow? Understood.
The next point, why should I overload constructor? Why are you overloading method?
Why are you overloading method? Overloading method means defining multiple methods with the same name. Why
are you overloading method? Why are you defining multiple methods with the same name?
Because all methods are performing same operation. When same operation I want to
perform different for a different argument types then we should overload method. Constructor is meant for
performing operation initialization. Uh tell me now for initializing
the current class object.
current class object non-static variables by taking number one by taking
arguments in different types.
Number two by developing
different initialization logics. Okay. So when
should I overload constructor for initializing the current class objects
non-static variables either by taking argument in different types or by
developing different initialization logic then we have to go for what
we must overload we must overload constructors.
uh let me take an example for example uh now class example I'm taking already
example there let me take sample class sample inside this class sample I'm
taking private int x I want to initialize this x variable either by
taking value as int what you write sample int x open bracket closed bracket
and this dox equal to x uh I want to Initialize this x variable with a hard
code value x = 50 or 10. x = 10. This
dot x = x. Uh let tell me I can also take int value as integer class. You
know wrapper class. We have one concept called what? Wrapper class. So primitive values are represented by object by
using which class? Integer. Then now this dot x = x dot x is what? Now
referenced variable. How to convert reference variable x to the primitive variable x in integer class. We have one
predefined method called int value. You cannot understand here accept it. What
is doing here? We are converting integer object to int value. What are we doing?
We are converting integer object integer object to int value. Okay. Next I want
to take I want to take integer value as a string. I want to take integer value
as a string. Then here also what code I have to write this dox equal to if I write x compiler throw error because
it's what type string type. Now I want to convert string object to int type. Further there is a predefined method in
integer class called integer dot parse int. Integer parse int. These are the
predefined methods you have to accept and remember. There is no point of understanding. Okay. Uh here what are
you doing? Converting string object to int value. Okay. Uh now tell me what is
the primitive data type you are having int type. I can directly hard decode value or I can take value from the from
the other programmer and assign. I can take that integer value as a integer object. I can take integer value as a
string object. Okay. I want to initialize X variable by
taking the arguments in a different type. Then we have to define the program. For example, for initializing
for initializing int variable by taking
integer number as int integer
and string type. We must overload constructors
as below. Okay. As below. Uh now tell me here class test
class test case one. Uh now
class test constructor overloading case one. Uh now public static
void main of string array ars open
bracket closed bracket and now tell me I want to create example E1 equal to okay
for getting that x value I am going to write two string method at the rate
override public return type is what string method
name is t2 string and return double quotes x + x. Okay. Uh now here
create example equal to new example example class object which constructor
is called no parent. Then system dot out dot print of E1. When I print E1
background E12 string method is called or not X is called by using E1 dot tell
me in E1 object which constructor called no param no param constructor initializing X variable with what value
10 then what is the output we will get here 10 we will get control 1 cannot
find symbol integer spelling mistake compile
execute look at here what is the output coming. O
sample S1 sample S
I must create sample class object now. Uh what is the output coming? 10. Okay.
Tell me the memory diagram here. What happened? Check J check.
S1 variable created equal to new keyword create sample is
sample subclass of any other class. Yes. Which class? Object. So only sample.
And what happened? Object memory created. Okay. And then sample class contain which variable? X with a default
value zero. Uh now new keyword called which constructor? No param. Then no
param constructor will be executed. In no param constructor X variable initialize with what value? 10 10 store
and then new keyword return the reference to S1 and store and point. Then when you call S1 uh system dot
outer print and S1 implicitly print method calling what? Two string method X
value reading from which object? S1 object. What the S1 object value? 10. 10 is print. Uh so tell me what is the
purpose of overloading constructor for initializing non-static variable in the
current object with a different uh by taking value in a different type. First
I take a hardcoded value. Can you help me? I want to take int value as a int type. How to write the code now? Sample.
Everyone should answer otherwise you don't understand. New sample of ah now I
want to pass my own integer value. Can I pass directly here? 30.
Can I pass directly? 30. 30 is passed to which constructor? Sample class. Sample
class constructor parameter is what? Int. int parameter constructor is executed. What is the problem? No
problem. Huh? Tell me. System.out.
S2. Tell me the flow. S2 variable is created. Visualize. New keyword. Create one more object with X variable memory.
Yes. Then new keyword is calling sample class constructor. Which parameter? Int
parameter. Control is going to int parameter constructor. Inside in parameter constructor parameter x
assigned to what? Current object x. What the argument x? 30. 30 assigned to current object x. Then in current object
x variable zero replace with 30. S1.2 string. What value it is written? 30
written. Is this a what chapter? Constructor chapter already you know
it is a constructor chapter already you know just I have added multiple constructors that's it are you following
I just added multiple constructors Babu
I just added multiple constructors there is no new point in this program
don't again use your brain freshly
Don't use your brain freshly. What the x value coming? 30. Tell me now I have the
value 30 as a integer object. I1 equal to new integer object in my hand. I have
what do you call a orange you know orange? Orange fruit is
available in two ways. Someone already someone has already peeled that orange and the orange slices are directly given
in the plate. What will you do? Directly eat. But now what he did? He
didn't give you orange as orange. I mean he's not peeling that one and giving directly orange is given. 50 is given as
what? Integer object. Uh now tell me my class should also accept the integer
object. My class should also accept what integer object. For that what should I
do? I should define constructor with which will take what? Integer
object as a argument. And tell me integer value available as a in type.
Integer value also available as what? Integer type. Then I have given integer
object as a argument. What I'm passing here? I will when I pass integer object as a argument is a 50 is going or
integer object is going then integer object receiving into which
variable x you want to store inside this non-static variable x you must store
integer object int value inte I have written already this is nothing
but get method from the current object integer the value 50 is retrieved and
stored in the current object observe here What is the output coming? System dot outprint length system.out print s3
control one we will get integer object or its value. You will get one warning.
Leave it. I one uh control one one argu one
warning you will get. Just ignore this warning. Don't consider warning. Control one compile.
I look at here what is the output you are getting now? 50. So tell me is a sample class. Sample class property is
what? Int property. this int property I want to initialize either with a
hardcode value or with what taking value from the other program then what should
I do I should overload constructor clear okay let me do one thing because you are
not understanding this we will discuss this point later I am removing this this much understood
uh what is that I wanted to initialize current object non-static variable either by taking argument
by taking argument in different types or by developing different initialization
logic. So I want to initialize this X variable. For initializing int variable
by either by
R decoded value or by
what do you call argument we must overload constructors as below hardcoded
value by taking argument. Is it clear now? At least now the small program understander right and now let me
quickly write one more program I'm taking class bank account another small
program I want to write here in this class bank account I am creating
variables private long account number
uh private string account holder name
private private uh double balance okay three variables
are there now please understand here I am creating one constructor
bank account I don't want initialize any object any variable I don't want
initialize any variable then I need to take one no param constructor without any logic tell me I want initialize
object only account number remaining two variables I don't want initialize then
these this constructor serve your purpose. I need one more constructor,
different operation, different constructor. Account of open bracket. Which variable you want initialized?
Account number. This dot account number. You want initialize with a hardcode value. No, I want initialize by taking
value from as a argument. Then I need a parameterized constructor. Account
number. Account number. Is it clear? Is it clear? Uh tell me why I'm overloading
constructors. I want to initialize the class non-static all variables I want
with the default values. Then use no param constructor. I want all var I want
initialize only account number. Remaining variables I don't want initialize. Take one more constructor
with the account number as argument and initialize. Help me to write the code. class
class uh test underscore constructor overloading case number two case number
two public static y main of string array ars open bracket closed bracket and tell
me here I'm creating bank account object account one equal to you want to create
this new object with all values as empty default values then which constructor I
have to call no param constructor I have to call then system dot out dot print ln
system outprint length account one uh if you print account one what is printed
it's a reference is printed I don't want to print it reference I want to print its data what is printed reference I
want to print data if you want to print data I have to override two string method two string of open bracket closed
bracket return account number plus double quotes
slash t plus account holder name plus double quotes /ash t
plus account uh balance I'm I'm returning all these three variable values now observe all three variable
values will be return default values because we have not
initialized the variable zero null 0.0 No, I want account number to initialize.
So what should I do? Tell me. I should call first constructor, second constructor, second constructor. I have
to pass here 1 2 3 4. Then 1 2 3 4 will be given to the account number. It is
stored in the current object variable. Then if you print account two variable,
if I print account two variable, account number 1 2 3 4, we will get account holder name and balance will get default
values. Are you following default values right? No, I want
initialize account holder name and balance also. Is your class supporting or not supporting? Not supporting. I
want initialize account number. Account number account hold both variables I want initialized. That means what should
I do? I got another initialization logic. So if you want another initialization logic what I have to do
again I should overload constructor account number what I write string
account holder name. Uh what logic I should write this dot account holder
name this dot account holder name equal to account holder name. Okay now now one
more constructor. Why I have written one more constructor? Because I got different initialization logic. When
should I overload constructor? Case one by taking argument in different types.
Case number two by for developing for a developing different
initialization logic. Here one initialization logic no values. One
initialization logic only account number. Another initialization logic account number and account holder name.
And tell me I need to create one more object here. Account three. Account three uh with account number and comma
account holder name HK. Okay. Uh tell me now control one
compile. The account three object is created with the three variables initialized. Look at there. 5 6 7 8 HK
balance is what default. Now tell me I want to initialize all three variables.
Then is this constructor satisfied? No. Second constructor? No. Third constructor no. What to do?
Overload. One more constructor. Overload with how many parameters? Three parameters. Double balance. Double
balance. Uh what logic I have write? Balance. This dotbalance equal to this
dobbalance. Uh then what I should do now? I should create one more object.
One more object uh with what? A count four. uh now
uh something uh 7 6 85 some number Balabu comma 10,000
and now account four tell me which constructor is called now first second or third or fourth fourth constructor is
executed and account four all three variables are initialized
combine and uh execute.
Look at their fourth constru execute and all three values are initialized. So everyone got clarity of what is
constructor overloading and why constructor overloading. What is constructor overloading? Defining
multiple constructors with the different parameters type or list or order is called constructor overloading. example.
Then second point when we overload constructor which parameter constructor executed it is depending on the
past argument. Uh now next point why should I overload constructor for initializing the object
either by taking argument in different types or for developing different initialization logic. Now this is this
case is for initializing object with a different values and this example for
with a different logic. So if you practice all these examples then it will be easy for you to develop the
constructor overloading and also answering the questions in the exam. Will you practice?
So tomorrow when you are coming to class please verify Google classroom and come.
Okay. Now if class is not there I will post the test case programs for you to practice. You have to spend the time for
practicing. Okay. So today we discussed how many points.
Three topics we learn in today class. What the three topics? Variable
hiding. Method of overloading. Constructor overload.
Constructor overloading and method of overloading is same. Con method of
overloading with your own method name. Constructor of overloading is class
name. Uh flow of execution is same. There you call method by passing
argument. You are you are creating object to call constructor by passing argument. So totally two cases. Okay.
Please practice and come tomorrow. This is also part of what polymorphism. Tomorrow verify Google classroom and
take decision. Okay. Now don't directly blindly come. Thank you. That's all for today class.
People who don't have access to the Google classroom,
send me WhatsApp message to my number.
Huh? WhatsApp message
last and found error. Java file name or class name must be
saved. That's it.
Java maintenance.
Hello.
Thousands of
type of data
based on your decide.
That's it. want to call him
requirement.

