ript


final variable questions I want I don't want answers
what is final variable uh next why final variable next
when should we declare a variable as a final uh Next.
Next. Next. What is the rule on final variable? Once
we assign the value, we cannot modify. Next. How many types of final variables?
Uh we have all four variables can be declared as final. Uh next.
Anything else we discussed?
Come on. Anything else we discussed? That's all. only four points. What are
the rule on final variable? We cannot modify its value if you try compiler throw error. Anything else we discussed?
Initialization. Uh initializing v final variable mandatory or optional?
Initializing final parameter final local variable is optional. uh initializing
class level static variable and non-static final variable is optional or
mandatory if you don't initialize compiler will throw error okay now I'm
trying to create static final variable without initialization non-static final
variable init without initialization here we got compile time error now tell
me why should we initialize static final variable and non-static final variable
when there is no need to init Initialize parameter and local final variable. Why
should we initialize static and non-static final variable? Just guess. Guess
I also don't know. Just I also guessed you guess and tell
why should we initialize static final variable and non-static
final variable? What is the need of initializing?
Um final variable is meant for what? Always ask a question from the question
so that you will get answer. What the need of final variable per story?
Per story fixed value. Fixed value I want to store. Okay. If I take static
final variable, static variable meant for storing value common to all objects
for all methods. All objects and all methods. Non-static variable meant for storing value specific to one object and
common to all methods. Value meant for what? Methods. Now,
value is meant for method to perform operation. Final variable static final variable
meant for storing a value common to all objects and common to all methods.
Non-static final variable meant for storing value specific to one object and
common to all methods. Then my question is if you don't initialize static final
variable non-static final variable by the time control come to M1 method what is the final variable value?
Understand my point? Final variable means what? Constant constant must be there. So there is no value. Then what
is the value for M1? It is assigning its own value. If it is assigned its own value then that become common value or
specific to one operation and next that is fixed value according to method changing value according
method changing value. So tell me is it a right way now wrong way? Wrong way. So what is the point we need to understand?
Why should we initialize static or non-static final variable? Uh because static final variable
non-static final variable are meant for storing value common to all objects and
all methods. So because they are meant for storing value common to all methods.
Before methods execution started, before methods execution started, static final
non-static final variable must already initialized. Is point clear? Let me show you that
point what I told static final non-static final variables must be
initialized before methods execution started because
those variable values are
uh how many rules are there done? Final variables, two rules. Rule number one,
all four types of final variables cannot be modified. Rule number two, initializing final variable, static
final variable, non-static final variable must be initialized, else we'll get compile time error. The final
parameter and final local variable no need to be initialized. So this program below program shows rule number two not
initialize. So we got compile time error. What the reason for rule number two? The static variable and the
non-static variable are common to all methods are meant for storing value
or meant for storing values common to all methods of the current class. Then
the final variable value or constant value to be stored in static variable non-static variable must be decided
before methods execution is started. Hence static final variable non-static
final variable must be initialized before those variables are ready to be accessed.
before they are ready before they are ready to be accessed. Okay, tell me when
static variable is available to access after class loading. When non-static
variable is ready to access after object creation, then the parameter and local variables are meant for storing a value
specific to this current method operation. Then those variables values
those variable those variables values are needed need to be decided by this
current method developer. Okay. Hence local final variable can be initialized just before it is using it is being
used. It is being used just before it is being used. Okay.
Uh then static final variable must be initialized before class loading is completed. Hence static final variable
can be initialized either in one of its declarations sorry either in its declaration statement or in any one of
the static blocks. I hope we discussed this point. Okay, tell me now I have
declared static variable with initialization. Any error? No. I declare B variable without initialization but
initializing the static block. Any error? No. C variable not initialized in
the declaration, not initialized in the static block but initialized in M1 method or in main method. Allowed or not
allowed? Not allowed. Uh static variable D not initialized anywhere. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Okay. So up to
this points we completed in last class. All practice. Uh shall we proceed with non-static variable?
Tell me when should we initialize non-static final variable? Non-static final variable must be initialized
before object creation completed because once object creation is completed then
the variable is available for accessing. Correct my point? Variable is available for accessing. When variable is
available for accessing I it should already initialized. So what are the places we can initialize? Look at this
program. Look at this program. I wanted to write this complete code for you and
understand. And now I am writing class A2.
Here I'm creating final int X. I just declare this variable. Is it compiled?
No. Line number 150. Compiler throwing error. Variable X not initializing the
default constructor. Here we have default constructor. So compiler throwing error. Now I am creating one
non-staticity block. Then compiler still throwing the error. Variable X is not initialized in the default constructor.
Okay. I myself writing no param constructor. I myself writing no param
constructor. Then compiler throw error. Variable X is not initialized. Invalid
method declaration. This is A2. Control one variable.
Variable X might not have been initialized. Where line number 158. 158
means what? constructor before constructor completing that variable must complete its initialization. Tell
me inside a class I can have only one constructor or multiple constructors multiple overloader constructors can be
there. Now tell me where this X variable must be initialized before object
creation is completed before object creation means what are the places we can do initialization either in the
variable declaration or in the non-static block or in the constructor.
Okay. How many non-sty blocks I can create inside a class? Multiple. First non-state block, second non-statty
block. Okay. Now tell me, am I allowed to initial? I mean, okay. Sorry. At the time of object creation, are both
non-sty blocks are executed? Come on. When we create object, are both
non-statty blocks are executed? Yes. When I create object, are both constructors executed? No.
Not executed either. no param constructor or int param constructor only executed. Then tell me
am I allowed to initialize this x variable in both non-stratty blocks? No. Either first non-stratey block or second
non-state block. Suppose if I don't initialize in both non-stratty blocks. Am I allowed to initialize in both
constructors or only one constructor? Okay. If you initialize in one
constructor x equal to some value 10. Uh is this program compiled or not compiled? If you create object by using
no param constructor x value is what? 10. If you create object by using inparam constructor.
If I create object by using int param constructor then what is the value?
Compiler can initialize it with any value. No x value has any value or no
value. Declaration no value non-sty block no value in the constructor also
no value. Then tell me what is the rule on non-static final variable initialization either inside declaration
or all non-static block or one of the non-static blocks one of the non-static blocks or one constructor all
constructors are all constructors else compiler will throw error because when we create object all objects are not all
constructors are not executed variable x might not have been initialized where line number 166 suppose Suppose if I
remove here how many compile time errors we'll get two compile time errors for two constructors we get compile time
error variable X might not have been initialized variable X might not have been initialized so what is the final
rule final rule is non-static final variable must be initialized either in
the declaration or in the non any any one of the non-static block or in all
constructors suppose I am initializing here x= Uh now here also I should
initialize X= 20 this X is which X
non-static variable X parameter X parameter X then how can we
differentiate this dox okay let me take here int I uh now any compile error now
no compile successfully listen careful and answer I am defining one more
constructor here A2 with a string parameter
Open bracket closed bracket here I am writing this of this of no par okay no
argument then tell me what is the meaning of this one you are calling which constructor no parent constructor
no param constructor initializing new object or the same current object
same current object when same current object initialized why string parameter constructor x variable is a memory
allocated and initialized or not tell me now here if I don't initialize X
variable in string param constructor then any compile time error no compile time error no compile time error compile
successfully because via this call this constructor executed X value is
initialized now my question think and tell me here I'm writing X= 30 compiler
not compile not compile because this line is initialization assignment then
compiler will throw error variable X might already been assigned. Why are
you assigning again? So final conclusion is what? Where non-static variable is allowed to initialize? A non-static
final variable must be initialized before object creation is completed. Hence a non-static final variable can be
initialized either in its declaration statement or in any one of the non-static blocks or in all
constructors. All constructors are those that doesn't have this color.
Those that doesn't have this call means it that contain what? Uh that contain what? That contain what? Super call. It
contains super call. It is also contain what? Super call. So finally these are the rules you have to follow. If the
constructor has a this call, we can initialize we cannot we cannot we cannot initialize
we cannot initialize non-static final variable because it is initialized
because it is initialized from from the called constructor
from the this from the this calling constructor.
Okay. So this is the story about non-static final variable. Let us try to understand all points. Int x= 10. Any
error or no error? No error. Final final int y semicolon. And here I'm writing x
= x = 15. Allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. I'm writing y. Okay, let me
show you compile time error. Two errors. We'll get x variable y variable. Cannot assign value to a final variable. Okay.
Now I am trying to write comment here. Try out remove this x = 20, x = 20 and x
= 30 here. Now control one x variable y variable compiler we will get variable y
might not have been initialized. I am initializing y = 20 here. Any compile time error? No. Compile successfully.
Now I am initializing I'm initializing y = 30 here. Compiler
not compile. Not compile compiler throw error. uh then next I'm going to write
this is also I'm commenting then I'm taking another variable final int J
semicolon now the Jed variable I didn't initialize at class level means declaration not initialized in the
non-stanti block initializing in no param constructor allowed or not allowed
allowed or not allowed not allowed compiler throw error because it's not initialized in second constructor in
second constructor also I must initialize now allowed Hello.
Uh, now tell me if I create object by using no param constructor, what is the
x value? What is the y value? What is the z value? If I create object
by using inparam constructor, what is x value? What is the y value? What is the
z value? Uh now tell me what is the right procedure to initialize non-static
variable non-static final variable. Once we assign value to the non-static final
variable that value is fixed or not uh first object created x value 10 y value
20. Second object created x value 10 y value 20. Third object created x value 10 y value 20. Uh now tell me first
object created z value 30. Second object created zed value 40. Third object is
created Z value. So tell me now what you have to understand time to time if I
initialize non-static variable inside constructor time to time there is a chance value can be changed or not from
one object to another object I can maintain different constant value for the J variable. If you assign the X
variable at the time of variable declaration time to time can you maintain different value at the time for
the all objects? No. So tell me no. After understanding all these rules, you
decide what is the right place to initialize static final variable and non-static final variable. You take
static final variable a equal to 10. When the a variable memory created when class is loaded into JVM a class loaded
first time what the a value 10 second time 10 third time 10 fourth time 10 any
number of times class is loaded a value is fixed. Is it a good practice or bad practice? Bad practice. If I initialize
a variable in the static block by reading the value from the keyboard by using scanner or from the file or from
the database then every time first loading to second loading a value can be changed or not. So tell me what is the
right procedure to initialize? What is the right procedure to initialize static final variable in the declaration line
with the hardcoded value or in the static block with the dynamic value? static block with dynamic value. static
final variable initializing static final variable in its declaration statement is
not a good programming because it contains the same value all time. The
right procedure to initialize static final variable is in initializing is
initializing it in where initializing it in static block by reading its value
dynamically from the keyboard or from the file or from the database.
Similarly, what is the right procedure for initializing? Initializing non-static final variable in its
declaration statement is a bad program. Okay? Because in all objects, this
non-static variable contains same value. Tell me if a non-static variable contains same value in all object. Why
are you taking it as a non-static variable? Declare it as a static variable or not. Why we choose static
variable? Because all in all objects it's maintain the same value. When maintain the same value why you are
declaring as a non-static. When non-static variable contains the same value in all objects declare it as a
static. Declare it as a static. Declaring it as a static is the
declaring it as a static is
uh declaring it as a static is the best choice. So that memory and time will be
saved. So you want to choose a non-static variable as a final variable for maintaining different constant value
from one object to another object. Okay. What is the point here? Declaring
a non-static variable as a final is meant for storing
different constant value
from one object to another object.
Hence the right procedure to initialize non-static final variable is either in
non-static block by reading its value dynamically from keyboard or from file or from database or in overloaded
constructors. Okay, overloaded constructors. This overloaded constructor you have to read
value either hard-coded value for no param constructor hardcoded for in param constructor by reading as a argument and
assigning so that this non-static final variable can contain different constant
value in a different objects based on object creation programmer choice.
Okay, hope you all understand these points. So very very important point up you know
generally all students and faculties will learn this final variable up to
rule number one and close the session we'll go for next topic final method final variable I mean final method final
class only rule number one create variable as a final try to change it throw the error but no one is learning
initializing rule initializing is very very important than the first rule because this initializing point will not
be available in the textbooks that's why people not covering these will be there in the interview also will be there in
the company projects development so because I'm already develop developer already have faced these problems in my
project development so I'm trying to share if you understand remember practice it if not understand leave it
because other people also don't there so if other people know there is a
chance you will face these questions in the interview then you should get fear generally students and faculties is we
learn what most important most important frequently asked questions and in our
education system we always follow even in the 10th class also we used to leave
trigonometry sin theta cos theta tan theta for options now 15 mark questions
will be there okay totally three algebra geometry
and next what trigonometry around three parts will be there in that only we will study two parts one part we
are leaving for what option right. Uh so same way in Java also in
intermediate also we are leaving some chapters for option in B tech also we leaving some chapters for option as B
tech we are leaving pap for next year okay now right so but in Java also we
people are having a feeling that even if you miss this bit no problem other bits are there to solve so that's why people
are not learning but this is compulsory initialization topic is compulsory for your projects development Friend
generally in the projects when you declare variable as a final we don't modify because we have common sense we
declare variable as final why we modify we don't modify so rule number one you learn or not learning doesn't matter but
rule number two is very important you should learn okay now the next other important point
people don't know so shall I skip it very important last topic anyways people
don't know not required you also want to know telescope.
Okay. Do you know tripler movie?
R tripler. Uh so Raj Mali is a Java
student my student. So when I was teaching JavaR
okay I have used the word color tripler. So he copied that movie name tripler from my class only. One day he was
learning Java for animations for graphics purpose. Okay. He's he's very famous for graphics. No
right. Uh for other purpose no he learned Java from me and he copied tripler movie from my class. In my word
Java R means read. Second R means
replace. Third R means remove.
Okay. Compiler software performs. Compiler software performs
what? Read, replace, remove tripler operation on final variable.
Okay. Tell me a variable is taking some time to execute or not.
When you create a variables x memory should be created value should be stored
and later wherever you are writing a a it has to travel to a memory read value
travel to a memory read value travel to a memory read value it is taking some time or not some nanconds it is taking
time and finally it is getting what some time taking process so what compiler was
thinking array this variable is final Once a project execution is started till
project execution completed this variable value is fixed
am I right? This value is what? 10 only. Then why should I leave this variable
name as a? Why I'm troubling the JVM? Even if I allow JVM to read also 100% it
will read what the value 10 only. Wherever A is available there what value is coming 10 only.
So compiler soft thinking wisely and perform what operation RR. What is the
RR? Wherever final variable you are accessing to read its value there it
reads the final variable value substitute the variable name directly with the value and in the program final
variable declaration statement is removed. Understand my point? For example, if I
write a program something like this class example
open bracket closed bracket public static main of string array ars
open bracket closed bracket. If I write here final int a= 10 or p = 10. I have
created variable as a final with value 10.
And in the program I'm writing system.out.printl
what I'm writing p uh this is our java file okay example java now when you
compile it java c exampmple java compiler software generates a doclass
file or not in the doclass file compiler software removes
Okay, first it will found it is a final variable P= 10. Okay, then down line you
are accessing P for reading value. Compiler software has seen this variable value is what? 10. Now for the entire
method this P variable value fixed or not. Then what compiler will do? It
replace the P directly with the value 10. Read replace and then what the use of
this variable? no use removed. Okay. So in Java file we have final
variable declaration and reading line. But in the doclass file no final variable declaration no P variable name
here. So that tell me JVM software required to create any variable. No. JVM
software required to access any variable. No. Then execution is passed and the user desired value 10 only
coming on the console. So what is the important point on final variable? If you declare final variable
in the program, compiler software will apply what tripler read, replace and
remove on final variable. If we declare a variable as a final with
initialization when we read this final variable value
in the next lines of the code wherever we access there compiler replaces this
variable name with its assigned value directly and removes the variable declaration as
shown in the below program. Observe class a main method final int p equal to
10 s o ln p. Now if you compile this program in the doclass file uh now the
variable is removed p variable value directly replace with 10 output you will get 10 but background story also you
should know here remove read replace and remove operation is applied. Let me show
you this point in the system. Compile. Go to your folder. Open command prompt.
Hope you know how to read bite code by using which command? Java P compiler
throw I mean throwing command from throwing error because Java P path you have to set uh how to set the path set
path equal to C/ JDK21/bin
Java P space which class byte code you want read A3
uh when you run Java P A3 it reads and return only declaration of the member
not internal logic if you want read internal logic you how to use java p -
verbose java p - verbos a3 look at here
this is your main method inside main method this is the code carefully observe what is the statement available
get static what is the static system out bi push push the value 10 into where
invoke virtual system outprint and this statement is nothing But this byte code
meaning is this bite code meaning is get static system.out
invoke virtual print ln bi push what 10.
So this is the main. So this is the java statement and this is the byte code for the JVM software. Okay. Suppose if I
write if I declare this variable as normal variable intp. Uh now tell me is
the variable removed? No. Is the variable name is replaced? No, this program will be available as it is. Now
the storing this assignment operator meaning is what? Push. Now tell me now
the BI push into where now meta variable variable observe. Now bite code change
1 compiled here and then here go to command prompt. Run the java p command
again and check main method code. Observe BI push into where now store
what store one_1 uh variable name this is the first variable that's why it is
taking what underscore one I stored_1 get static what system outper print uh
from where I have to read the value I load load value from where now underscore 1 means p variable from the
java program point of the variable name is p from the bite code point of the variable name is what underscore 1_1. So
now whenever you declare the variable as a final that final variable declaration
statement is removed and the value will be replaced. Now my question is when
compiler can replace this variable with its value only if it is assigned. Conditions apply. Employee is applied
only when the final variable is initialized where in the same
declaration line and that two with what literal constant
with the constant you have to initialize if you don't initialize this variable in
the declaration statement or if you initialize with some other variable or with expression variable will not be
replaced observe if final variable is not initialized final variable is not initialized or or
initialized in the next line or initialized with a variable or with an
expression or with a method call. The compiler doesn't know final variable value. Hence, it will not apply triple
R. It leads it leaves the variable it leaves not leaves.
It leaves the variable declaration and variable accessing statement as it is in
the program. It leaves variable declaration and variable accessing statements as it is in the program.
Okay. Then the run at runtime JVM allocates memory to final variable stores given value then reads the final
variable value. Let me show you small program here. I declare final variable in the one line initializing in another
line and printing and then tell me what is the what is the commands will be available in the bite code bi push I
store one then get static get static i load one uh invoke virtual right so that
commands will be there I declare x variable separately b i push i store to
uh then b this is what I load to i store three.
Okay. And then now the I I load three. Okay. Like this the commands will be there. Load story will be there. Store
command is coming means what? Variable is not removed. Simple point. Store is coming means variable is not removed.
Observe uh main method command.
A4.
This is main method. Look at there. I store one variable P available not
removed. Then I store two X variable. I store three Q variable. I load three
from the Q variable. Understand? So these points you have to remember when variable is removed when variable is not
removed. And now my question is this triple R rule applied for all four types
of final variables? No. No. No. This tripler is rule is applied only for local final variable and static final
variable. Tripler point is tripler is not applied
to all four types of variables. static
uh is not applied to non-static final variable and parameter final final
parameter final.
Why? Because
okay because
the parameter value is parameter value and
okay value is decided
at the time of method call
at runtime at the time of method call.
Hence compiler doesn't know
final parameter value.
Next
second point,
the non-static final variable must be provided memory
and its value
is available to Excess
only
after object creation. Okay. Uh hence
compiler doesn't know final parameter value and non-stratative final variable
value to apply uh what tripler.
Uh next point is what? U tripler is
can be applied on static final variable. Why? Because it has only
one copy memory. Uh very important apply.
Look at here. There's a two important points are there. First of all you answer this question. When we access
static, when we create static variable and static block and when we access static variable in another class, when
we access static variable in another class, tell me can we directly read a value or first class must be loaded into
JVM? First class must be loaded, static variable memory created, initialized,
static block executed, then only a executed. Correct my point? Uh, now what
is the output of this program? Control 1 compile
test SB main start A5 SB A5 class is loaded static block executed uh then A
value will be read. Am I right? Uh now I will write this one
later. Now I am declaring this variable as a
final. Uh come on sir tell me when we declare variable as a final this a
variable value fixed or not when the a variable value is fixed why
the class required to load into the JVM unnecessary time waste and memory waste
when the variable is not final its value can be decided by compiler no the value
will be decided at runtime by JVM but when you declare variable as a final
When class is loaded, its value is fixed 10. Any chance to change the value in
the static block? No. When its value is fixed, why unnecessary load the class into JVM? Time waste, memory waste. So
what compiler is doing? Observe. There is a shock point to you.
There is a shock point to you. Control one compile. When you declare final variable when you
declare static variable as a final they go class is loaded or not loaded not
loaded directly what is the value coming 10. Okay, very very very very very important
confusion point. All textbooks and all faculties, all YouTubers are telling
that final variable memory is allocated by compiler.
Is it right or wrong? Final variable memory is allocated by compiler and JVM
just read already available memory. When you will comply your project today,
when are you running your project? tomorrow, day after tomorrow, after one year, after 10 years by other developer
throughout the world, uh I mean other client throughout the world, then tell me the program compiled today in your
computer when you are sleeping happily at night. Uh from the US customer is
trying to access your project then the control is coming to your bed, slapping
you, asking to wake up and start your computer to read the memory.
Can compiler allocate memory to the variables for the JVM? The compiler provided memory can be read by the JVM
software. No. This is the most confusion wrong statement is prepared in the
market. All people are blindly following. Change your mind. Compiler cannot provide the memory. Only JVM can
provide memory. Then how JVM can read the static variable value without loading the class? Because compiler
software replacing this A5.A. a directly with the value what 10 in the doclass
file class name dot variable name is not there. So because there is no class name directly value 10 is there the class is
not loaded. I'll help people understand the clue. So tell me if you access static final variable of one class in
another class is this class is loaded and static block executed. No directly
only value we will get. Directly only value we will get. I'll go and check the
class file port so that you will understand it. Clear screen. Java py-
verbos.
Look at the main method code. Main method code uh get static. This is
what main start. Okay. And get static. Look at there. Do you have any variable
name or directly value there? Directly value is there. able to see now directly
value is there. So that means variable name is replaced by value. So tell me triplerr is applied for static variable
also. Come on is tripler applied to static variable also. Yes. But the point is
triplerr not applied r is applied. If compiler remove this line
for a test class it is available for other classes. This class A5 is specific to only one class common to all classes.
If static variable is removed then problem will come. That's why like local variable static final variable
declaration is not removed. Only static final variable on static final variable
only double is applied. That is what read and replace. So static variable value read and
replaced here. Okay. Now what is the meaning of compiler changed code?
Compiler generated code or compiler changed code. Uh now here a5 a place what is coming?
10. Okay directly 10 will come. So class is not loaded. Now suppose observe here
I'm taking another class called static final a then in the static block I have written a equal to 10. Now tell me in
this case now I'm writing a statement a6 dot this is a6
a colon plus a which a6 do a tell me in
case of a6 a variable is replaced or not replaced already you
learn when the compiler can replace variable value if it is assigned in the declaration is it assigned in the
declaration or not assigned. So now replaced or not replaced not replace class is loaded control 1 compile
and control 3 ex look at that A6 class is loaded and the value is read. So very
important point read replace the concept is very very important and this question
this particular question will compulsory ask in the written test exam from final variable. Hope all you people
understand. Uh
next point very important when we create
static final variable. When we create static final variable
with the assignment does this variable internally contains default value.
Last point, important point, think and tell. If you declare static final variable with assignment, is this
variable in contain default value?
Yes or no? No. Yes. No.
What is your answer? Default value there. Not there. Not there. Let us prove.
Let us prove. How can I prove? uh before initializing read a variable from the
static block. If we have default value we will get default value. Now tell me is this program compiler not
compiled? Not compiled. Compiler throw error illegal forward reference. Last point sir all people focus illegal
forward reference. Uh now how to solve this problem?
I should access by using class name. If I write with the class name a7.8 What is the output?
No compile time error. Compile. You will get default value zero or assign value 10.
Everyone you will get assigned value 10. Why?
Array trip is applied. Now read and replace is applied. Yes or no?
When you access static final variables then compiler replace its value with
replace this its name with its value. Then how to solve this problem? I want
to see default value there or not. Then I am trying to take another problem.
I declare static final variable initializing in the static block. I separated when I initialize static block
compiler replacing value leaving as it is leaving as it is. Then JVM read a
variable value. Now uh now look at there compile
what the value coming. Now tell me static final variable has a
default value or not. Even though you assigned value, even
though you assigned a value in static variable, we have default value. How can
you prove that? This is the proof. So static final variable is also initialized with the default value.
Later it is initialized with given value. So you for proving purpose this
is the program. Many faculties are feeling that static final variable doesn't have internal default value. But
we have defaulted. Now let us let me check your mind what is the output. You
will tell class static static final int a semicolon
public static wide main of string array asks open bracket closed bracket system
outp. What is output? Come on everyone.
Error. What is the error?
Static variable when not initialized we will get default value zero. Now
option one zero. Option two no value.
Option three compile timer. Option four run timer. Option five, none of the
above. None of the above. Now
compile time. Why? Which line number?
At which line number we have compile time? Line number 375 or 372?
3702. Why? Static final variable must be
initialized.
Okay. Uh same program if you same program if you type in the Eclipse you
will get Eclipse customized error blank final variable.
Okay. Eclipse software will throw error blank final variable.
But com our regular compiler software will throw error.
Huh? Our regular compiler software will throw error. Variable A might not have been
initialized. Tell me really is it a blank variable or not blank variable? Not blank variable.
It has internally default value. Okay. Default value is there. When default value is there why not accessing default
value? Hey default value is for
JVM not for you final means who has to decide its value JVM should decide programmer should decide
programmer must decide that's why compiler throwing. So it is not a
blank final variable. Not a blank final variable. People are confused with Eclipse. That's why I don't like to use
Eclipse in the beginning days. Beginning days if I use Eclipse you are learning Eclipse compiler errors but not the
proper concept clear concept you cannot learn. So that's why requesting you until language completed until you got
the you know command on the language don't use Eclipse is meant for developing projects okay advanced Java
Eclipse you have to use or Java uh API in core Java when we start API Eclipse
we must use as long as you are learning language as long as you need to use the commands you must not use
Eclipse it is not a blank variable it as default value
still we will get compile time error. Why? Because
it is a final programmer must assign value.
Is everyone understand? Now these all points related to what? Final variable.
Okay, let me try to show you all points at one place.
You read all questions by your own and if you have any doubts ask
I covered all points
covered all points. 12th question. Can we assign highest range data type final variable to a
lowest range data type variable? If yes, how?
HRD means highest range data type. I am writing here int i1 equals to 10.
I am writing byte variable b1. Uh b1 is highest ranger. Lesser ranger lesser
range. I1 I have written. What am I doing? Higher range variable assigned to
lesser range. One lit bottle trying to copy into half letter bottle. Allowed or
not allowed? Not allowed. Compiler throw error. If I declare it as a final
not allowed why because of tripler
if it is a normal variable I1 place what is applied int can be assigned to by no
if it is a final variable what is applied in its value what the value 10
10 is in the range of by or not yes that's why suppose if I take here 210 uh
now allowed or not allowed even though it is a final not allowed because the value 210 not in the range of five.
Everyone understand? So if the variable is a uh final highest range type
variable assigned to lesser range type variable no problem because it
internally uses what value not the variable.
Okay, Abishek, if you are not getting what is this parenthesis, leave it. Okay, I cannot make you I cannot educate
you. I already tied Baba because you never come to my path. You always go to your own way.
Read notes again. Okay, stop using your brain. Read notes and remember.
I really tried so much. I tried.
You always go in a different path. Such a complex path you are choosing to
confuse your brain.
Uh completed all points
bu final variable all points are comfortable. Okay. Now let us try to understand next
topic is what? Final methods. There is nothing to explain final methods. Okay.
I already known point.
Let me take this one as
final keyword, final variable.
Uh any online students can explain him if you understand what is final this and this parenthesis.
If you understand reply to him. If you also don't understand leave it.
Huh? Final method. Tell me what is a static
method. Static method is a method or uh a method
that is declared with the keyword static. Uh what is this method? Final
final keyword is called
final method. Uh when should we declare
method as a final? When should we declare method as a
final? When should declare method as a static?
If you want to access and execute its logic without creating Uh same way when I should declare method
as a final final means what can change or cannot change where will you change
existing method logic in the same class in a subclass
I gave you variable already existing variable you are trying to change in your class I don't want hello so I
declare variable as what final now I am declaring a method as a final when you
declare method as a final I don't want you allowed to change a method what method you change declaration you change
a logic you change logic where in the same class subclass subclass changing
method logic in subclass is called override so tell me when should declare method as a final
when we don't want to hide or override
Super class method in subclass.
We must declare a method in super class as final.
If you wanted to force all subasses
to use the same given logic of a method,
we must declare this method
as final. For example,
get bank name, get branch name,
get IFSC. Tell me these three methods logic is same for all banks or not.
For all banks, these three method logics are what? Same. uh then
methods logic is the same for
all banks. Hence
we must declare these three methods
as final to stop overriding them in
subasses and tell me what is the rule on final method.
We cannot override her. We cannot hide or override
super class method in
very important. We can declare both
static method and non-static method as file.
Below program shows above
Help
me to write code class A. I'm creating static
YM. Is it a normal method? Final normal method or final method. Now declare as a
fine. Now it is fine. System dot out. Len uh what do you write here?
double quotes a M
I'm taking another method wide M2 normal method or final method now I declare as
a final now it is what a M so one static final method one non-static final method
I'm creating another method called M3 which is a
AM3 I I'm declaring it as static and next I'm taking one more method wide m4
am okay now I'm creating class called before which is sorry b extends from a
uh I'm trying to create this static method in the subclass means what am I doing
oh static method comes under what hiding allowed or not allowed not allowed.
Compiler throw error. M1 in B cannot override M1 in A.
Overridden method is static final. It's a final. So you cannot override. So what
should I do? Silently I should comment it.
Compile error. Uh next you can remove this final also. No problem. Okay. But even final also no problem. Next I'm
taking M2 method. M2 method either as a final or as a
non-final. I'm trying to override. Is it allowed or not allowed? Not
allowed. Still we'll get compile time error. M2 in B cannot override M2 in A.
Overridden method is final. Overridden. Overridden and past tense. Past tense
means super class. Superclass method is final. You cannot. Okay. If you are confusing, remove final. Final. No. Uh.
Next. I'm trying to write void M3 method. Uh,
can I override it? Sorry. It is a static method. System dot
outer print ln of double quotes DM. Uh,
compiler. Yes. No compile time error. Why? Because it is final and non-final.
nonf
next M4 method I'm taking
BM4 uh any compiled error no compile successfully and executed
sorry execution not possible because main method not there and now tell me any error now no we can override why we
can override because it is a nonfile now I'm creating class test 02
final method public static void main of
string array asks a A1 equal to new B or else B1 equal to
new B1 M1 B1 M2 B1 M3 B1 M4
Uh Tell me now from which class M1 method executed. Searching in B not available executing
from A. Uh now M2 method searching in B not available. Searching in Available A
M3 method available in B M3. Uh B. M4
available in B executed from compile.
Execute. Look at there. A a BB and now tell me
what the use of final method to force subasses to use same logic given in the
super class. Now I'm taking another subclass called C. In C subclass can I
override these two methods? No. If you try to override compiler will throw
error in seek subclass. Can I override M3? Yes. According to subclass one write
logic in subclass. According subclass one write logical subclass for M4 method
then I am trying to create Cclass object
Cclass object and I'm calling these methods. Uh so
tell me now from which class a method M1 is executed from C class A class A class
because this final not allowed to override but M3 and M4 methods are
executed from Cclass because non-final they are overridden in the subass
control one control everyone understand the final method
purpose. So repeat once again all points. A method that is declared with the keyword final is called final
method. When we don't want to hide or override
super class method in subclass, we must declare a we must declare a method as a
method. We must declare that method in super class as a final. If you want
to force If you want to force all subasses to use
the same given logic of a method, we must declare this method as final. Okay.
Then this is the example for that. I have a super class called A.
A contains what? It contain final
and non-final
static and non-static methods.
This is class A. Now I'm creating class B and I'm creating what? Class C. This
is the hierarchy. Uh in class C we can override
non-final methods here also hide and override
non-final methods okay this is the diagrammatic representation for your
understanding any doubts now I am creating one more
class called D this class D has another sub class
called E extend C D this is class D extends A for
the point here like A B C I also contain other class called what T this class D
contains E and F can be or not
yes or no uh now parent has what child has again what children.
Now think a class
static non-static non-final methods
are coming to class D class D providing one logic
hider override
nonfinal methods of class A
as a final allowed or not allowed
class A final non-final methods
as final methods allowed or not
class nonfal methods override
ID override nonfal methods of
class A as final methods allowed or not allowed
allowed not allowed why not allowed
Fixed deposit allowed or not allowed. Your father got
some money from your grandfather. Now that that money expecting to give to
what you child but he is making it as a fixed deposit and not allowing you to
take because you are such a bab fellow not responsible that money is put in
your hand you will spoil it and make your next generation generation
childrens will be suffered. So that's why your father very intelligently make your grandfather property as a final not
to be used by you and he made the result coming out means
the interest coming from that money you eat no problem because he gave birth to you he should make sure that you should
leave even though you are irresponsible you should leave okay now tell me again I'm repeating super class non-final
method in the subclass can I override as a final method Yes, for stopping further
subasses to not to override. So tell me final method uh we cannot override
non-final method uh non-final method we can override how
we can override either as non-final
or as final both are allowed everyone You understand? First point. Second
point. Let me show you this point here. Now class D is overriding static wide m3
method system.out.print ln
double quotes d m3 allow allowed.
Now I'm declaring it as final allowed.
Allowed. Okay. Next. Now I am taking this method
M3 M4. Uh now tell me D M4 allowed or
not allowed? Allowed. This is a overriding method declared as a final allowed. Clear my point. Uh then class E
extends D. Can E override M3 method? No. static wide m3 or wide M4. If you
override compiler throw error,
M3 in E cannot override. M4 in E cannot override because they are final.
So if you want to stop further subasses to override your super class methods,
you override them as what? Fine. Okay. Now one more case I am giving
class I want you only tell okay okay class
f extends a this f contain a subclass called g extends f
uh now or else let me take here many now names are confusing d1 and e1
uh now observe this dclass Everyone should answer
this D class want to access the logic available in A
only it don't want to change the logic of A. It want the same logic of A but it don't
want allow for other subasses to override
class D want to access the logic of A only it don't want to override but D
further subasses has a chance to override now D is leaving now E writing
static v M3 of any compile time error No, D is
not overriding. But is overriding? Allowed or not allowed? Allowed.
E1 is a subclass of D1. D1 is not overriding. But E1 is allowed to
override. Compiler software searching for M3 method in D1 class. Not available. Extend from A class.
Available. So it become what? Hiding method of which class? A class. The next now
non-static method M4 and tell me M4 method can be a overriding method of
whom now class A method allowed or not allowed hello but D1 class found your
father found you are a such a irresponsible fellow spoiling the cont
complete property so he want to stop you override if you want to stop you
override the only one option he has to declare that matter as what final where
In a class A can he declare as a final? In a class A he declare as a final. Other children B and C also get problem
or so his generation D generation only this rule has to be applied. Other
family siblings should not affect it. Then override that method M3
as a final. Now tell me is it allowed to the subass? No. Now subclass invalid method declaration return type is
missing. Yd3 observe. Now we got compile time error
to the subclass. M3 in E1 cannot override M3 in D1. Okay. Same way, same
way, same way. Same way. Uh now wide wide wide place, right? Final final wide
M4. Then now we got M4 also compile timer. Okay. Now M4 also compile. So by
declaring super class method as a final in subclass we able to stop further
subasses to override. But now the problem what the logic I have to write here I don't want any my one logic I
just want to stop my subasses to override these methods but I want execute logic of whom a class only how
can we do that now come on come on my requirements
fulfilled I able to stop the subasses to stop overriding but I want to execute logic from my class from a class then
what is call super class method here a M3 and
non-static method. How can I call? Super M3. A dot M3 and super M.
Compile. Okay. Now go to main method. Uh now create D1 object D1 D1 equal to
new D1. Then call D1 dot M3 and D1. M4. M3
method searching in which class? D1 class. In D1 class, M3 method is available. But what logic is available?
A. Then a method is executed from A class. M4 method available in D. Sorry,
M4 method. You call M4 method available in D. But you call what? Super dot.
Super M4 executed from which class? A class.
Everyone understand the technique? These all compulsory asking return questions. AM3 and AM4.
Enter will ask this question I have
methods in super class. I don't want to override the super class methods in my
further subasses. What should I do? Override them as final in your class.
Override them as spinal. Uh but logic I want the same superass logic. Then you
don't write logic call superclass logic in subclass. That's it. Read all
questions and any new question is there ask me I'll explain
If you ask questions, I mean if you have any doubt, if you ask, I'll explain otherwise I won't.
I already completed my explanation. Now pending is from your side.
all questions covered. Seventh question is the final method
inherited to subclass? No. No. H if it is not inherent to subclass, how can you
call it? Final method is meant for contain the logic common to all subasses to be called by subass.
Tell me M3 M1 M3 methods are super class final
methods. You are able to call that method by using subclass reference means it is inherited to subass or not?
So tell me final method inherited to subclass. Yes. Then can we call super
class final method by using super keyword? Yes, with the subclass reference. Yes, because it's inherited.
Can we override final method? No. Can we overload final method? Overload means
what? Same signature and new signature. Uh same name with a different parameter.
I can overload final method in subclass. But we cannot override. Override and
same signature. Can we override a non-final method as a final method in subclass? Yes. For what purpose? for not
allowing further subclass to override. What is the difference between final method and private method? Now tell me
final method is inherited to subclass. We can call it in subclass by using this
keyword super keyword subclass reference. We what the private method? Private method is not inherited to
subclass. In subclass, we cannot call private method by using this keyword or super keyword or with subclass
reference. Next very important, we cannot override final method in subclass. We cannot
override private method also in subclass. If you try to override final method, compiler throw error. If you try
to override private method, will you get compile time error? No, it is considered as subclass own method. Private method
is considered as subclass own method. Already we discussed this point in the rules. Go back and refer once again. Can
we declare main method as a final? What is main method? Main method is a method. It is a static method. When you
able to declare main meth static method m1 as a final static method m1 as a
final. Why can't it declare main method as a final? I can declare. Okay. We can
also declare main method as a final. If we declare in the super class, if we
declare main method as a final, can we override main method in subclass again?
No. Means can we define main the subclass again? No. In super class, if
you declare main method as a final, how can we execute subclass, static method or non-static method? If you want
execute methods, I have to call them in main method because main method is not there. How can I execute them? call them
inside static block when class is loaded into JVM. JVM execute static block also.
Now call them inside static block. So these all the points related to main method. Uh now just last three questions
you try by your own. Okay. Four questions. 12th question, 13th question, 14th and 15th. These four questions I
want you try by your own. If you try write the program by your own, you will get some idea about what you are
writing, how you are writing. No problem. Try some few points. You
have to try by your own
Final variable, final method, final class. These three topics are very
important from programming also very important from interview.
So if you not practice well
you'll miss the marks in the exam. Okay.
First you read these questions visualize the code answer yourself then I will
write program. Final class. Next topic is final class. You only read and visualize the code
first. You work yourself.
uh got an idea. So tell me what is the final class.
A class that is declared as final is called
final class. Class example declaring it as final is called final
class. When should we declare class as a final?
When we don't want to create subasses
from this class, we must declare this class
as final. Or another way when we want
stop inheritance from this class
we must declare this class as
final.
Uh next what the rule now for example I'm writing class sample extends from
example allowed or not allowed not compiler will throw error
cannot inherit from final class
we'll get a compile time error cannot inherit from final class. Okay, I'm
commenting this. So what the rule on final class?
Rule on final class. We cannot create subclass
from this class.
Is it clear? Okay. Next. What the real time example for final
class? I have vehicle.
Vehicle is extending by bus. Uh bus is having siblings
red bus and gold. Okay.
We must stop inheritance at some level
else project
we must stop multi-level inheritance at some level.
What inheritance multilevel we must stop multi-level inheritance at
some level otherwise else project
project maintenance becomes very difficult.
Now look at that vehicle bus bread buso. This Volvo is having a special type of
Volvo called Volvo plus Volvo means one axle backside one axle
only will be there. Volvo plus means what? Two axles will be there. Now I am
trying to create one more Volvo called Volvo plus and two extra axles. Totally
how many are there? Three. Are you able to visualize the Volvo bus?
Volvo bus. Huh? Do you know what is a Volvo bus? How it look like? Feel it.
Volvo bus backside. What is there? One axle is there. Axel means wheel. Four wheels. Backside four wheels are there.
Volvo plus means ga.
Volvo government bus is ga. Okay. Now bus model is what? Volvo. Now Volvo plus
means that backside four wheels are there. Extra more four wheels are there.
Okay. Now bus length is increased and two wheels are there for more comfort.
If I add one more plus what the meaning of it? One more four wheels are added. H if I
add one more one more go plus then what happened? Finally this bus become buser trainer.
Understand? So that means I should take Volvo plus
as well. Final further subasses are not allowed. More wheels are not allowed.
Only extra two wheels are allowed. For example, you take your mobile your mobile minimum take 8 GB memory space.
Can you extend the memory? Yes. How much? Your visha infinite memory size. If infinite memory if you add your RAM
your your processor cannot hold that much memory maximum how much it can hold only okay 64 GB or 128 GB only it can
hold no I want you know extra extra extra finally your mobile will be blasted so that means what is a final
128GB is final somewhere you should stop the inheritance so the best example for
you to understand is we must stop multi-level inheritance at some level else project maintenance has become
difficult. For example,
we must stop bus type Volvo
at Volvo plus level
as shown below. Okay, hope you all comfortable. Now,
next points are very important inside this final class. Okay, let me create class final.
If I create class as a final a inside this class, can I create static
variable int equal to 10? Come on.
Can I create non-static variable index equal to 20? Can I create static method
y m1? Can I create non-static method y2
inside some logic?
Now answer my question. If you declare class as a final
are its members, variables and methods are also final.
If we declare class as a final, are its members also final? Yes sir.
Your father collector you also collector error.
uh answer my question. If you declare class as a final or its members are final. No,
that means Okay, tell me if you declare class as a
final, can I instantiate this class? Can I create object of this class? Yes sir.
Finally is applied only for what purpose? For stop creating
subclass for extending for stop extending this class only that one rule is there. Extra points about the class
disturbed or not disturbed or not disturbed. When you create class I can instantiate that class. No problem. A a1
equal to new a. Any problem in instantiation? No. Any
problem? No problem. We can instantiate. When I instantiate, step number one,
class A is loaded. Static variable memory created and initialized. Can I read that A value here? Yes. Plus A1. A.
Can I read X value here? Yes. A1.X. Can I access M1 method? A1. M1.
A1 m any problem? No problem. Compile successfully
executed successfully.
Look at the A value coming X value coming M1 M2. So if you create class as a final
answer is question can we instantiate
final class? What the answer? Yes. Next question. Can
we create static variable, non-static variable,
static method or you can say all 10 static and
non-static members in final class?
Or the answer? Yes. Can we instantiate final class and
access its members? For the answer, yes. Next question. If
we declare class as final
are its members final
answer, no. If we know they are
non final members. If we want
the final class members as a final we must declare them
as a final explicitly. Okay. Next very important question.
Can we modify non-final variable
final class non-final variable value?
What the answer? Yes or no? No. Can we modify final class non-final variable
value? Yes. A1 dot A equal to 15. A1 dot
x = 16. Allowed or not allowed? Allowed. No problem. Okay. Very important point.
Answer is yes. It is possible as long as Okay. Next question.
Can we override final class
nonfal method?
Can we override final class non-final method? Yes or no?
Yes sir. Where? Where?
Where? Huh? Serious where override override in subass?
Yes. No. No. Final class. Where is the subclass?
Because final class doesn't have
subclass. Clear? So these are all the points available in the final class and this is
the program. Try to practice all these points and come tomorrow.
If you leave it then enter will leave you. These are compulsory asking question in
the exam and in coming classes also we are going to use all these concepts.
Thank you. That's all for today class practice and come
printable object system
object number
of data of the object
inside object.
The class logic notication
doesn't mean declarations. Assignments
are under a declaration. Assignments are

