ript


Uh tell me now what are the points we discussed in last class.
Okay, we have to learn these are the topics. What is an abstraction? How can
we develop an abstraction? What is abstract method? Why abstraction
or advantage of abstraction? Okay. Real life examples on abstraction.
Real time nothing but business examples on abstraction. What are the rules we must follow in developing abstraction.
So first basic idea. These are the programs we have to learn. Uh let's start with first one. What is
abstraction? We discussed yesterday.
uh hiding unnecessary details and providing necessary information. The process of creating a class by hiding
the implementation details of an object's operation and providing
necessary information to the user programmer for accessing this object's operations is called what? Abstraction.
So simple point hiding unnecessary details. What is that unnecessary detail? implementation details and
providing necessary details. What is that necessary details? How to access the operation of the object that means
creating a class uh I'm creating one class. Let me remove this entire code.
I'll write again. Uh now create a class with a method like
this. M1 open bracket closure bracket. Tell me can you call it as abstract method? Can you say this is a
abstraction? Did you develop abstraction here? No, there is no abstraction here. Uh you develop y1 method with
implementation body. If you develop implementation body, the user programmer, test programmer is looking
into.
Okay. Now when you want to access a A1 equal to new A then A1 dot this user
programmer looking into class A and he found what logic of this method. How
many lines of logic are there? So many lines. Now he wanted to find the second method. He wanted to find the third
method. Then if he wanted to find the all the methods how many lines he has to go down. It is very difficult for him to
find the methods available in this class. So for that what some micro
system told not some micro system okay what object oriented programmer people are telling don't create method with the
implementation remove it create it as semicolon
second method third method fourth method fifth method sixth method seventh method tell me all the methods list easily to
we can find and we can easily access so for calling the method what information
required only method declared ation is sufficient. Here we have A1 M1. So what
is the method? No parameter. Method name is M1 and no parameter. So directly we
can call like this. So as a user programmer you should find the method
declaration for calling. For finding second method if you provide implementation here it's a unnecessary
information to the developer. Okay. Uh then what is an abstraction? Abstraction
is the process of creating a class. Creating a class by hiding the
implementation details of an object operation and providing necessary information to the user programmer from
accessing this object operation is called what? Abstraction. Then how can we develop abstraction? We can develop
abstraction by using abstract method. Then where I can create methods? Inside
a class. Then in regular class can I create? No. By declaring it either
inside abstract class or inside an interface. So there are two special classes are available in Java called
abstract class. And second one is what? Interface. Uh right. So now here I
created the method like this. Is this method automatically executed? No. Compiler will throw error. Identify
expected. Y identify X.
Sorry, what is the line number
116?
Uh look at here we got compile time error missing method body or declare it as what abstract. So if you want to
create a method as a abstract method either I mean if you want to create a method inside a class it must have body.
When you remove body I must declare it as what? Abstract.
When I declare it as a abstract now this method is called what? Abstract method. I created abstract method. Now the point
you carefully observe understand here this abstract method where you created
in a normal class. In a normal class can I create abstract method? No class is
meant for providing implementation. A is not abstract. Hence doesn't override
abstract method. If you wanted to define a method without implementation body,
you must create this class also as what? Abstract. Abstract class A. Now program
is compiled successfully. Okay. Now program is compiled successfully. Okay. Let me remove this.
Now the class A is compiled. So tell me by creating a class with only declared a
method what concept you have developed here abstraction you develop. Okay why
you develop abstraction for hiding implementation details from the user programmer then user programmer is
looking into class A and then trying to access its operation A1 m. Now my
question in this class A do you have method with implementation or without implementation?
When the method without implementation is there are you allowed to call that method? No. Uh you want when you call
the method its logic must be executed. Where is the logic available? The logic
for this method is provided in the subclass. Then in order to call this method can I create object of this class
in new way? No. compiler will throw error. Class A is abstract cannot be
instantiated. So tell me what are the rules we must follow in calling I mean
in developing abstraction. Rule number one. Rule number one. What the rule
number one? The method should not contain body ends with semicolon and must contain the keyword abstract. Rule
number two. If a class contain if a class contain abstract method. If a
class contain abstract method, you must declare this class as what? Abstract.
Rule number three, if you declare class as a abstract, you cannot create object.
You cannot instantiate that class. Why? If you instantiate this class A, what
the meaning of it? M1 method of class A, you are trying to execute from which
class? A class. In a class, M1 method has implementation or no implementation. No implementation. Then now where I can
provide implementation in the subclass class B to create a subclass or to
create a subtype of the abstract class what the keyword I have to use extends
extends A class B extends A. In this class B what I should do now? I have to
provide implementation to this method. Uh rule number four to create to provide
implementation to the abstract method we must create subclass. to create subass what is the keyword I have to use
extends when you create class deriving from class A then automatically that M1
method is implemented no uh why you are creating this class as a subclass of this A for implementing this method
because you didn't implement compiler will throw error now look at that A is abstract cannot be cannot instantiate I
am commenting this line okay then class B extends A means class B must class B
not abstract and doesn't override abstract method M1. So if you don't
implement abstract method of class A and class B either you should declare class B as abstract or implement this M1
method. What you want to do? Suppose if I don't want to implement I must declare it as what abstract. If you declare as a
abstract is this program compiled? Yes. But I my requirement is what I wanted to
implement it. For that I have to write v1 internal logic is mandatory. No no no
logic is not mandatory. Okay. What is mandatory? Open bracket closed bracket body is mandatory then the program
compiled or not? Yes. Are you following my point? Uh then tell me what the rule number what the rule number five. If a
class deriving from abstract class the abstract methods available in the abstract class must be implemented.
Okay. Now I'm writing logic system.out outprint ln logic is not mandatory but
for knowing whether it's executed or not I am writing so tell me what is the user programmer target user programmer wanted
to call a class method to be executed from which class B class then what I
should write here a a1 equal to uh tell me can I write just a a1 semicolon here
and can I write a1 equal to a uh a1 variable is allowed no compile time error we can create reference
variable from the abstract class but we cannot create object okay then what is the allowed A1 equal
to I should write new B why you want to execute a class method from which class
B class A1 M1 any compile time error no compile time error compile successfully
and then executed successfully look at the output coming from which class B
class so tell me what are the rules we must follow in a develop Developing abstraction rule number one the method
must not have body it must ends with semicolon must contain abstract keyword
else it leads compile time error. Next if a class contain abstract method this
class must be declared as abstract else it leads to compile time error. The subclass from an abstract class is
created by using extensive keyword. Next the the sub uh or you can say for
creating subclass from
an abstract class we must use
we must use uh the keyword extends. We must use extends keyword.
Okay. Next. The subclass of an abstract class must override all abstract methods
available in this class or must declare it as abstract. Else it leads to compile
time error. Rule number five, we cannot instantiate an object. We cannot
instantiate an abstract class. It leads to compile time error because it is not fully implemented. So these are the five
rules you have to follow while developing abstraction. Can expect everyone understand how to develop
abstraction? Tell me what is the difference you can see here from regular
inheritancebased program and abstraction wise program. Is there any difference?
No. Now tell me regular inheritance means super class contain method with
what implementation body in a subclass this logic is overridden at the calling
time. M1 method we will call by using what? Super class
variable. super class variable by using which object subclass object that method
is executed from which class subclass then this is nothing but runtime polymorphism or not. Uh what is the
difference between abstraction and without abstraction? Without abstraction we will provide method with
implementation body. It is difficult for the user programmer to find all methods available in the abstract class.
Abstraction giving benefit to whom? User programmer. Tell me whenever you are
manufacturing one product you will manufacture this product as you like as per the user comforter
if a user is not comfortable in using your product will he buy your product? No. So same point here when you wanted
to develop your real world project nothing but real real world classes and implementation you must make sure user
programmer must feel comfortable in accessing your object operations. If you write unnecessary implementations here
user don't like for example yesterday I told you this one uh for example I wanted to access the file this this
software operation if user if this user I mean if this software developer
showing the all the details how the implementation is provided for all these buttons if it is showing new button to
find the next open button to find the next close button to find the next save button how much down distance I have to
travel it's very difficult for me because I want only names how the the name is background implemented I'm not
worry about it so only show me the names based on that names I will perform the operation so abstraction is giving the
benefit to whom now user programmer everyone understand my point now I have
a question I'm giving you one one point try to think abstraction provides 100%
encapsulation can you agree this point Abstraction provides 100% strong encapsulation.
We'll agree this point. Encapsulation means what? Object data must be
accessible only via methods either set method, get method or business logic
method. Tell me when you develop abstraction inside the class do you have any variables? No. What you are
accessing only methods. Now user programmer calling method method
executing from subclass via subclass only we are accessing the properties or not
that means abstraction provides 100% strong encapsulation. Are you all agree
this second point abstraction provides 100% runtime polymorphism.
Abstraction provides 100% loose coupling. What the meaning of loose coupling? Store subclass objects in a
super class variable. Store subclass objects in superclass variable. Uh now
tell me here I created a class variable A. Can I create a class object in the
abstraction? No. The coming object and storing in A is what 100% subclass only.
That means storing subclass object in superclass variable is what? Loose coupling. 100% loose coupling is
achieved and 100% runtime polymorphism is also achieved. Will you agree? 100%
strong encapsulation, 100% loose coupling, 100% runtime polymorphism. How
100% runtime polymorphism is achieved? Tell me the method available in super
class is a concrete method or is it abstract method? Abstract method. Overriding abstract method in the
subclass is optional and mandatory. Mandatory. If you don't override compiler throwing error. If you override
method and when you call the method with the super class reference variable by storing subclass object method is linked
with the super class executed from subclass. Area tell me what is the object oriented programming principles
target. What is the object oriented programming principles target? Providing security to object data providing
dynamic binding and accessing the object operations. Uh so security and dynamic binding is
the target. Uh tell me if I develop abstraction 100%. Did I get security to
my object data? Yes. 100%. Am I achieving dynamic binding means runtime
polymorphism or not? Yes. Uh so tell me what you recommend me to develop the
project. Every project should start with directly implementation with the declarations. Declaration. If we start
with the declaration by developing abstraction will I get dynamic binding automatically? Yes. For example, now I
have another subclass called C extends from where? Yeah. And tell me this class
also must implement that M1 method. If M1 method is not implemented, compiler
throwing error. Then what C-class will do? Uh C-class silently implementing M1 method. Okay. Cclass implementing M1
method. And inside the C class I'm writing output system.out print and cm1
below. If you want to execute this m1 method which class object I have to create cclass object. I don't want b.
I'm changing b to c. Whenever I change from b to c is this m1 method of the
same class a automatically executed from cclass or not? Uh that is called runtime
polymorphism or called dynamic binding. Runtime polymorphism or dynamic binding. Observe what is output coming. CM.
Previously what I got BM. Previously we got BM because the object is what? B
class. Look at that BM. And now if I change a subclass, if I change from one class to another class, automatically
method calling is also changed. That is called about runtime polymorphism. And
tell me if I change this is my mobile. This is my mobile. If I change a SIM to
BSNL SIM, automatically call operation is happening. previously to what AL now
it is automatically changing toward BSNL now in the real life what type of applications you are expecting dynamic
bind so if you want 100% guarantee
strong encapsulation strongly encapsulated loosely coupled runtime
polymorphic application development strongly encapsulated loosely coupled
runtime polymorphic applications development you You have to start your object development with what
abstraction. So that automatically inheritance will come automatically encapsulation and
polymorphisms also will come. Understand completed as sleeping
still continuing here onwards I don't disturb your
sleeping mode okay and before abstraction all the topics are new topics. So that's why I should make sure
that all people must listen the class. If you are not listening I should scold. I told you from abstraction onwards you
are not going to learn anything new. All topics whatever you have learned previously every topic is revising with
a new style. That's all. If you are sleeping that means you are not interested. Should I disturb you? No.
How long I can uh run behind you? Yes or no? You are a human. You are a
responsible right? So that's why I don't disturb your sleeping mode. If you want to sleep, happily you can sleep. If you
don't want to come to the class, happily you no need to come to the class. Okay? You can sleep in your hostel room. Many
of your friends are sleeping in hostel room. Now I know do you remember in demo class I told look at the demo class how
many students are there. Okay. By end of the course observe how many students are there. Okay. Now students are very very
very quickly bored and lose their patency. People
who hold their consistency they only get their success. Okay. Uh all just you
know many people are just will come for checking the luck. They don't decide
their destiny. People who decided their destiny they will work hard and have the consistence. Take si industry. There are
so many people are coming and going but only one or two one hero two heroes one
hero in two heroins only sustain in the industry because they are having consistency and they have the
destination thought they have their destination in the mind okay my destiny is this only so I have to work hard for
it whatever happen I have to work for it I have to consistently punctuality I should maintain so those people 100%
will get job success. Okay. Some people will be
there. All are going. Let me also try. How long they will try? How long they
you know recently I got one uh Instagram reel. There are two things are there.
People who are working on motivation, people who are working on consistency.
How the graph will be for the people who are motivating. Whenever they got motivation peaks they will work and
again come down again someone will motivate again they will work again they come down again
they will work again they come. How many days people will motivate you and finally
zero level they will people who are working consistently they keep on going to their destination.
This the graph of consistency people. So you are in which category? Motivation category or consistency category.
Uh still you are coming to class and you are consistent. You decided your destiny. you are you wanted to get the
job in IT field. Okay. People who decided to get at any
cost I want job in IT field they will continue till end of the course completed. Okay. Uh every day topic will
be understood. No some topics will understand some topics will not understand. When the topic is not
understood these motivation people will keep on complaining ah not understand not
understand. People who are inconsistency they will go to room and they will start reading it. What is this? What is
abstraction? Let me read. Let me by heart. Let me remember. Maybe in the next class I will understand. Maybe next
class I may get clarity. Let me try. Let me remember. In college exams you write after understanding. Never by hearted
and remember writing. No this is also same. Okay. So again and again I'm
telling you don't lose your interest. Okay. You have you decided to continue
Java compulsory you have to be there till end of the course then only you
will see the final result in the middle because your friend not coming if you don't come your friend is sleeping you
are also sleeping your friend is going some other place you are also going finally he will fail along with him he
will also fail okay clear my point uh so of course now the election time people
are going to home lot of things they're happening But still somehow you have to take care of your life. Elections will
come and go every five years. Okay? And government will come and go every five years. But your life is very important.
Then elections. I don't say don't do give the vote. You have to give the vote because your destiny is also dependent.
But the point is because of elections if you are missing the classes it is not good. So somehow you have to manage to
go to election time to your native place give the vote and come back. Okay? And
we are providing online also. If you are missing offline for the elections, talk to atman you have to join online.
Somehow you have to manage should not miss the class. You are missing the class. That is your headache. So finally try to read what is the abstract method.
Tell me what is abstract method? A method that has only declaration ends with semicolon is called abstract
method. It means an abstract method must not contain body. It must ends with semicolon. Must contain abstract keyword
in its declaration. For example, abstract class a abstract y. Why
abstraction? What the advantage of abstraction? Why I require this abstract method? Uh just now I completed
abstraction hide the bigger picture of the object.
Tell me when you are standing a long distance when you look at the Everest you feel it is a very small.
When from long distance you watch you feel it is a small but when your vehicle is nearing nearing nearing the Everest
the real picture will come into the into the scene and finally started getting scared. Abstraction is also same. The
bigger picture of the object the bigger picture of the object is hiding from the
user but once you come nearer uh background subclass will be visible the
entire logic will be visible. you'll get scared. That's why again coming back only abstraction you are see uh so
abstraction hide the bigger picture of the object uh bigger picture of the object implementation details so that
the user programmer easily find the list of the methods available in this object and can access and can access and can
access easily. So tell me abstraction is meant for whom
developer or user user abstraction provides 100% strong encapsulation. How?
Because user programmer has only methods information unto only methods
information to access. All fields are hidden in the subclass. So 100% uh
encapsulation we got. All fields are hidden in the subclass and provides
access only via methods. Those are declared in
superass. Those are declared in super class. Okay. Next, abstraction forces.
Next point is what? Abstraction forces all subasses to implement the method
with the same signature. Tell me classes C is there. Can a classes implement this
operation according to its vision? No. For example, changing the parameter compiler slap.
If you change the parameter, hey, if you change the parameter compiler,
you have to override M1 method with no parameter. Can you change the parameter? No. So, what is the important point?
You have to force I mean abstraction force all the subasses to implement methods with the same signature. Uh tell
me now so that what is the advantage? Abstraction forces all subasses to
implement the methods with the same signature. Hence the method invoked in a
user class. Hence the method invoked in a user class can be executed in subclass
at runtime dynamically.
The method which is invoked in user class can be executed in a subclass
can be executed from from all subasses at runtime
dynamically. Whenever you say dynamically tell me now abstraction provides 100% runtime polymorphism or
dynamic binding between user class and subasses because the invoked method is 100% implemented in subclass and the
object stored in the super class reference variable is always subclass object. So uh tell me finally if you
want to achieve object oriented programming target 100% strong
encapsulation loose coupling and runtime polymorphism you must develop your
object starts with abstraction following by inheritance polymorphism abstraction
then automatically all whoop concepts class object encapsulation inheritance
polymorphism following strong encapsulation, loose coupling, runtime polymorphisms are implemented and your
project becomes highly scalable and extensible. So what the meaning of scalable extensible you can understand
in the next classes. Okay, at this minute remember those two words next classes you will understand that. So you can expect you just got some idea why
abstraction advantage of abstraction. Finally once one statement I can say that abstraction give the benefit to
whom? User a programmer. Okay. Abstraction. Let me write that point also. Abstraction gives benefits to
user programmer. Okay. Habit is giving benefits. All these points you have to talk to the interviewer. Okay. You have
to buy hard sir. You have to buy hard. Okay. When you buy heart and remember the words slowly you will realize that.
Uh tell me in childhood your mother and father slowly telling the words to you. Do you know the meaning of that word?
No. But father mother forcing you to speak. Once you speak slowly that words you are started understand. Oh amma
means this person. Nana means this person. Ata means this person. Whenever that person you see immediately what you
calling ata nana. Okay. Dada di right? So same way whenever you see super class
variable subclass object. Oh loose coupling. H okay. What the meaning of loose coupling? in the same reference
variable I can change from the subclass object to another subclass object that benefit is there okay now whenever call
method searching in the superass executing from subclass immediately what you say runtime polymorphism okay what
the advantage of runtime polymorphism whenever I'm changing from one subclass to another subclass I no need to change
the method call it is automatically executed aa okay so if you remember the
terms automatically the programming and concept will be come to your mind okay So this is a basic idea on abstraction.
Hope all points I covered. It's the time you have to practice all these points. Will you practice? Okay. Now let me try
to implement one example, one real time example with abstraction. Are you ready?
Let me take already developed a program so that you will not waste the time.
Did you understand what are the rules we are to follow while developing abstraction? How many rules we are to follow? Five
rules. Please practice five rules. And now look at here. I wanted to develop
the real world object in the programming world. Now tell me what is the target of
object- oriented programming? creating real world object in the programming
world by achieving security to object data dynamic binding between user class
and subclasses for accessing its operation. Uh so I want you choose one example to
implement all book concepts and to achieve these target create real world object shape in the programming world by
implementing all concepts. By implementing all good concept means what? Class, object, class means
variables, methods all will come. Okay. Class, object, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism for achieving
for achieving what? security to object data and
uh by achieving
uh this is a question create real world object shape in the
programming world by implementing all whoop concepts by achieving security to
object data dynamic binding between user class and subasses. object
subasses objects of this shape
of this shape object by reading this question. What did you understand?
What did you understand by reading this question? Create real world object shape
object. How can I create object? What who concepts I have to use? Class and instance class shape. Shape S1 equal to
new shape. Uh think and tell me. When I create a class shape, can a class shape
create a shape, right? What you done? You created a class shape.
Class shape. Open bracket. Closed bracket. Ah. Then you are creating one
shape here. shape S1 equal to new shape you have created.
Uh now tell me when you write like this I created a class and from the class I
created instance. How can I create real world object in the programming world? By using class and it's a instance.
This is which shape. You have only one shape in the world.
Now there are different type of shapes are there. What the different types of shapes you have? Rectangle shape, square
shape, circle shape, triangle shape, polygon shape, cub cuboid shape. So many
shapes are there. Is this a shape s1 equal new shape? Can represent the
rectangle? Can represent the square? Can represent the circle?
S no SS
tell me this S1 is which shape
yesterday I have asked these questions come on think this S1 representing which
shape come online students tell me S1 representing which shape rectangle shape
circle shape or triangle shape of shape
Screen not struck. Open your eyes. Visualize.
Visualize and try to tell what I am talking. Try to visualize and
tell. Huh?
It representing which shape?
Do you have shape called shape? Is a shape an object?
Is a shape a physical? Whenever you write a new shape, what the meaning of this? This is physical.
It should be there in the real world. Do you have anything called shape in the real world? No. Do you have rectangle
shape in the real world physically available? Do you have square shape in the real world? Yes. Circle shape in the
real world? Yes. You have different kinds of shapes are there. But there is no shape called shape.
Shape is representing different shapes. That means it is just a type. Uh tell me
when it is just a type are you allowed to create object or not allowed to create object? Tell me how can we stop
creating object of a class by declaring it as what?
Tell me if I declare class as an abstract can you create object of that class? No. Understand my point? Okay.
Next point I'm asking. Tell me whenever you say shape what are the operations you can perform on the shape? Draw. What
is the operation? Draw. If you want to draw the shape, I should know the area. How much area I have to draw? I should
find the area of the shape. For finding the area of the shape, we have to have one method called what? Find area. Find
area. Uh tell me in the shape I have to create one operation called what? Find
area. What is the logic of this find area in the class shape? What the logic of
find area? Come on. Can you decide
what is the logic of find area? Can you decide online students? Come on, tell me what the logic of find area. Can you
decide? I cannot decide. Why you cannot decide?
Huh? Why you cannot decide? Because the logic of find area is decided based on
the type of the shape. Rectangle one shape one logic. Square another logic.
Circle another logic. So when the subtype is not decided, when subtype is
not decided, the implementation of the find area cannot be decided. Everyone
understand? When the logic cannot be decided, you have two options. Option number one, create the method as a empty
method just open bracket closed bracket. Create method as a empty method just
open bracket closed bracket. If I create just a method as a empty method. Can
compiler force this method to implement rectangle square circle? Come on. This is what method? Abstract
method. Concrete method. Abstract method. Abstract method or concrete method.
Concrete method. Concrete method implement in the subasses is mandatory or optional. Optional. If this method is
not implemented in the subasses, runtime polymorphism achieved or not achieved? Not achieved. Now tell me you
is your requirement fulfilled or not fulfilled? Not fulfilled. I must achieve runtime polymorphism means super class
method must implement in subclass. Now uh tell me when the method operation cannot be decided at super class level.
Leaving that method as a empty method is a good idea, bad idea, bad idea. So what
should I do? Declare this method as a abstract method. When you declare method as a abstract method, definitely this
method is implemented in the subclass otherwise compiler throw error. When you declare it as a semicolon when you take
it as a ends with semicolon, this method should be declared as what? Abstract. When a class contain abstract, the class
also should be declared as what? Abstract. Everyone understand? Right? Uh then now try to observe. Now I am
creating a class called shape. uh inside this class shape I have created a method call what find area find area
implementation logic I cannot decide so I declare it as what abstract when I
declare it as abstract class also should be declared as what abstract everyone understand shall ask one more question
uh now tell me same question I'm repeating create real world object vehicle in the programming world by
implementing all whoop concepts by achieving security to vehicle object data dynamic binding between user class
driver and different types of vehicles that means I have to start the entire
project design starts with what abstraction who is a super class here vehicle uh vehicle whenever I'm creating
I have two options in my mind number one concrete class concrete methods number
two abstract class abstract methods which is the right approach
abstract class and abstract method why tell me now when you Take vehicle. What
is the question you have to get to your mind? Okay. Now it is a vehicle is a object. How to create real world object
in the programming world? By using class. So what I have to write class vehicle uh then I want to represent the
real world object for that second what required instance. For that what I have to write new vehicle. Okay. Whenever you
write a new vehicle whenever you create instance it should represent one real world vehicle. Huh? Do you have any
vehicle called vehicle in the real world? No. Then new instance, new vehicle creation is right idea, wrong
idea, wrong idea. You are here developing project according to compiler, according to JBMR, according
to the project designer. I mean according to real world, according to real world, you have to
develop your project. Seriously if you write the class vehicle new vehicle if you are allowing to instantiate vehicle
if you are allowing to instantiate vehicle then you are following the real world your own world our own world you
are following not real world so it's a right design or wrong design wrong design whenever you take super type a
main type then always you have to feel it is a just a type not a physical
nothing that is not running on the road clear my point uh Now create uh create a real world object animal in the
programming world by implementing all book concepts. Then immediately what should come to your mind? Animal is a
abstract class with all the methods as what abstract methods. Now why abstract class? First point is animal physically
available in the world. No animal operation eat and sleep for all animals
changing from one animal to another animal changing from one animal to another animal. When the implementation
logic changing from one animal to another animal, is it a good idea taking the class as a concrete class and
concrete method? No, I must take the method as a abstract method for forcing the subtypes to implement those methods.
Then only I'll get security then only get dynamic binding. Nothing but runtime polymorphism. Everyone understand my
point? Uh then now I decided shape to take as a abstract class, abstract
method. So here onwards what is the thought should come to your mind always the super type or main type is just a
type it is not a object there is no individual object it is just a type two
to two I mean this kind of main type there are so many objects are there those objects we must create with the
individual classes look at here first step for implementing real world objects
in the programming world we have to use how many whoop concepts nine there are nine whoop concepts are there what are A
class object for representing real world object in the programming world. Second one encapsulation for providing security
to object data. Inheritance, polymorphism and abstraction for achieving dynamic binding. Dynamic
binding means what? Connecting user classes to subasses at what time?
Compilation time or runtime. Runtime autoconnect. Then at compilation
time with whom I have to connect super class uh user in a user class I must create super class variable. In a super
class variable I have to store what subclass objects. In a super class variable I have to store subclass
objects. Clear my point? Uh so class object representing real world object.
Real world object means only super classes subasses also. Now super class
and subasses entire circle is called what? Object. Next encapsulation inheritance polymorphism and
abstraction. Tell me now if I create inheritance polymorphism abstraction 100% will get loose coupling on runtime
polymorphism. No user programmer must must store subclass object in a subclass
variable or superclass variable or superclass variable that is called loose coupling and call the method by using
superclass reference variable or subclass reference variable. Superclass reference variable that is called what?
Runtime polymorphism in super class variable for calling this method what object I have to store in the reference
variable subclass that is called what message passing. So tell me class and
object means super class subclass and user class. Next encapsulation means
where it is available in subclasses. Uh inheritance available where super class
and subclass. Polymorphism available where in subclass abstraction available
where it is available super class. Then where loose coupling runtime polymorphism message passing is
available user a class in a user a class super class variable
uh super class variable super a class method call by storing subclass object.
Storing subclass object is technically called what? Message pass. Everyone understand my point? So if you implement
all these concepts then automatically all hook concepts are implemented
automatically security to object data achieved automatically dynamic binding is achieved automatically your project
will become what scalable highly scalable and extensible scalable
extensible what the meaning of scalable extensible next classes
okay now tell me so this is the question I give. Now I want to implement this
question. For that what are all I have to do? First up we must create this shape object by using three types of
classes. Number one super class shape. Number two subasses rectangle square
circle. Uh number three yod class who will draw the shapes painter. Painter.
Okay. Clear my point. Next. Uh what will be there in super class? What will be there in subasses? What will be there in
the user class? Uh tell me in a super class shape we must declare the
operation find area. Yes or no? uh
operation find area to force all its subasses to implement this operation as
per their requirement because the find area operation implementation logic is
changed from one subtype to another subtype class and also for achieving
100% loose coupling and runtime polymorphism as shown below. As shown
below. As is shown below.
Now look at here. Shape rectangle square circle are the subasses of shape. Inside
a shape I should declare the method. Its implementation is changing from one
subtype to another subtype. So you declare it as what? Abstract. I didn't write the abstract keyword but n
semicolon what? Abstract. Uh then rectangle should implement find area with its logic l into b. Square should
implement find area with its logic is what? S into s. Uh circle should
implement the same method with it logic what? P r². Is it clear my pointer? Right. Uh then
next then in the user class what should I do? In the user class painter we must
call find area method. How? by using super class shape type. Super class
shape type reference variable.
Super class shape type reference variable by storing subclass object for achieving what? Loose coupling and
runtime polymorphism. for achieving
for achieving loose coupling and runtime polymorphism as shown below. Ready here.
UC means upcasting re loose coupling nothing but upcast. Look
at here. First I created abstract class shape with abstract method. What concept I implemented? Abstraction. uh just by
creating this shape and find area is real world shapes are available in the programming world. No, I have to create
class called what? Rectangle extension shape, square extends shape, circle
extensive shape. Tell me are these three classes compiler not compiler?
Come on. Come on. If I just write extense extends extends are these three classes compiler not compiled not
compiled. Why not compile? I have to implement abstract method find
area. If I don't implement compiler will throw error. Okay. Okay. I have implemented it. Look at there. Private
doublel private doubleb. Uh what is this? Encapsulation providing access to
these two variables via the method available in the super class. That is the advantage of encapsulation. 100%
security in what is advantages advantage? Why abstraction? uh
abstraction provide 100% strong encapsulation because user class has only methods information to access. All
fields are hidden in the subass and provides access only via methods those are declared in
okay now right tell me what is the logic of find area system outper and rectangle area
currently I have not implemented the logic I will implement logic later currently I want you only understand the
concept where is which concept why it is there what the benefit or advantage of that concept that's it logic I'm not
writing just I have written to see whether this method executed from rectang angle class as per runtime polymorphism dynamic binding or not.
Okay. Uh next tell me in square class what will be there? Inheritance is there? Yes. Poly encapsulation is there?
Yes. Polymorphism is there. Yes. Okay. Next circle. Inheritance.
Encapsulation. Polymorphism. Now tell me what is ready all these all
these six concepts are implemented or not? class, instance, object. Okay, hold
object encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction. By implementing these six concepts are
automatically loose coupling, runtime polymorphism, dynamic binding is achieved. No, by implementing these six
concepts, real world object came into programming world. Yes. Security is provided. Yes.
But dynamic binding is provided. No. Dynamic binding. What do you call platform? We provided dynamic to achieve
dynamic binding platform. We provided to learn Java in deep parishna is provided
but learning or not learning is in your hand. Now you are the user. If you decided you can receive my point after
going to home revise the topic with the given notes and practice and come right. If you are not practicing who will face
the problem? I will face you will face. You will face the problem. Next batch I announce again next batch students will
come. People who are not attending class they will only recommend me. Are you following people and I don't
know really that's a wonderful thing previously one batch student come I asked him hey how do you know me my my
senior recommended did he complete full course from my class no sir half only completed remaining of why he not
completed because of his personal work didn't do but I wanted to learn Java he recommended you only that's why he came
I really surprised people who are not continue till end of the course they also recommending their juniors to my
class only okay so that is a good happening you know that's why I'm telling even I am giving the full
platform for you to learn full depth knowledge it is receiving practicing or
leaving it is in your hand if you're sleeping in the class you will not receive if you don't study at the home
you will not receive evening 5:00 batch new batch is there same subject is running there
okay I should not tell that Okay.
So daily. So yesterday I was blasted like anything.
Okay. They will come to the class nicely. Every day they will come. They will only sit in the class. That's it.
If I ask a question, okay, tell me this method is what?
This method is what? Okay. They don't talk this is abstract
matter
concrete ma if you say then next point I'll tell okay what is a class
one month completed one one okay one and a half month completed 45 days why you
took 3 months in my batch sir in your batch I explain logical programming no so that's why extra taken in their batch
only I come I'm they they want first object oriented programming to complete that's why there in 45 days we come to
the object oriented programming and this weekend both both batches object oriented programming going to complete
so yesterday there was a full raining evening students already less number of
students came to the class and one student by completing the in the rain the changing the rain and come finally
5 minutes listen the class after 5 minutes suddenly he went to the mobile and started checking in the mobile he
forgot the class already before two three questions I have asked on the yesterday class previous classes no one
answered when response is not coming how much peak frustration I have you know right
and he sit in front of me exactly opposite to me and then watching mobile
and smiling
already for one month they are torturing me like anything I I just got unable to control my anger
and why I got anger especially on him because he all the way in the rain taken
rest and come to the class after coming to class he relaxed
you people are having only one target what is that now go to
What should I do in the class? The target not given to your brain only two things. Do take admission. Go to the
class. I have scolded him like anything.
I only use one word.
He got so much of you know feeling after class he come and ask me
sir why did you spo me like that sir how much you know big word you have used sir
I think so that is where people are know uh so what is the point whenever you
come to the class you should have that focus I have to involve while I'm giving one example you have to think what
another examples okay that parallel thinking must be there if not there then you'll get a problem so connection is
very important what connection user class should connect to the subasses at runtime uh then now tell Here
we created abstraction in super class, inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism
in subclass. Now I want loose coupling. Who has to develop loose coupling? The
platform is ready. To achieve loose coupling, runtime polymorphism platform is ready. Super class is providing that
connection. But uh user class programmer must call that method by using which
referenced variable? Super class type reference variable. Whenever you take super a class variable to store subclass
object, what is the concept is called loose coupling. Super class variable. If
you create what is that loose coupling storing subclass object is called what?
Message pass. I am passing message to the painter. Painter draw rectangle.
Message pass right? Painter draw shape called rectangle. I pass the shape I
mean message then okay now the painter started finding okay uh started painting
what find area how much area I have to paint then when I when he call find area
method everyone please try to tell me uh everyone please try to tell me when I
call S1 equal to new rectangle what the meaning of it you are telling to the JVM
execute find area method of shape from rect Rectangle that is called linking
the method to super class executing from subclass that is called what runtime polymorphis
compile execute this feeling sir it is a feeling that
feeling if you don't digest Java is always tough not Java object oriented
programming is always tough uh now tell me I gave the message to the painter
draw rectangle so that he find the area from rectangle and drawn. Uh can you help me? Can I write like this? Same
referenced variable changing the object to a square and same method s1 dot find
area method call I have not changed what I have changed only subclass I change any compile time error no any runtime
error no uh now tell me automatically shape class method changes its position
to execute from where shape what is this concept message passing message passing
what this concept runtime polymorphism Automatically executing from subclass. It's nothing but dynamic binding.
Compile and execute. Executed from square class.
Everyone understood? Are you getting the benefit of abstraction? Abstraction 100%
guarantees dynamic binding. What the meaning of dynamic binding? One user
object able to connect to different subclasses and the invoked method
automatically executing from different subasses. That behavior is called what? Dynamic binding. If you want to achieve
this dynamic binding, you have to start your super class with what? Super class.
I mean you have to start object design with what? Super class. Super class with concrete class. Super class with
abstract class. Super class with abstract class with abstract methods. Everyone accepted? Really? Uh will you
develop vehicle project at home by your own in your system to feel all the points? Vehicle is there. Mobile is
there your heart of your body your mobile user class accepting
different kinds of SIMs are and whenever you press the dial button the dial making call via the SIM inserted in the
mobile only now uh next uh ATM card ATM ATM card also you can develop will try
really pa
students everyone understood
uh now I'm taking S1 equal to new circle
new circle S1 dot find area
uh find area I changed object means what I'm passing the message to the JVM hello
execute the same find area method from circle class then is a dynamic bind
object oriented programming is not a programming it is a feeling it's a love
feeling okay when you fall in love how feeling happily when you break up
how you are feeling killing yourself any of your friend break up nowadays
breakup is also not committing suicide Yes or no at our time you know break up
and committing suicide another person not come to their brain that much you
know true love but now 2024
after corona before corona we different after corona after corona break up thank
you uh find some other person okay it's a good okay it's good
no problem
I done my job. It's the time now you have to work yourself. Let me upload these programs.
Few entry questions are there. We will discuss. Wait.
Abishek, you want everything except subjective.
Search in Google here.
search in Google, you'll find answer
and let me know.
Uh shall I shall I go to entry questions now?
Already covered five questions.
Question number one, how to create abstract method?
Declare remove the body ends with semicolon and
should contain the keyword abstract. Question number two,
where can we create? Can I write a shortcut? Abstract method.
Where can we create abstract method? Where? Either in abstract class or in
interface. Either in abstract class or in interface. Question number three.
When must we declare a class as abstract?
When when must we declare a class as abstract?
When class contain abstract method when we don't know
subtype maki when a when the class contain
abstract method I must declare class as abstract. Next question.
What is the rule on abstract class?
Huh? What is the rule on abstract class?
We cannot instantiate. When you declare class as abstract, we
cannot instantiate. Again I'm asking question when should you declare class as an abstract?
There are two reasons we have to declare class as abstract. Number one if a class
contain abstract method. Reason number two if you don't want to create object of the class. If you don't
want allow create object of the class then we should declare class as what? Obstruct. Question number six.
If a class contain only abstract methods.
If class contain sorry class contain only
concrete members. Concrete methods. No abstract method. If class contain only
concrete methods,
okay, a class doesn't have
abstract method. Class doesn't have abstract method.
Can we Declare it as abstract.
H. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on.
The same question can also be asked as or.
The same question can also be asked as
can we declare a concrete class?
Can we declare a concrete class as abstract?
Concrete class means what? A class that doesn't have abstract methods is a concrete class. Can we declare concrete
class as an abstract? Guess yes guess. Allowed or not allowed? Allowed. Yeah.
Just now you told when must we declare class as an abstract. Number one, if class contain abstract method. Number
two, if you don't want to create object of
the class, if you declare class as an abstract, we cannot instantiate. Now tell me can we declare concrete class as
an abstract? Yes. Comma. Why? Why you declare concrete class and abstract? If class contain abstract
method, I must declare it as abstract. When there is no abstract method, why you declare as an abstract for stop
creating object? Why? Why are you stop creating object? What the problem? Tell
me. Your father, mother earning money, working very hard for their sake, for
your future sake. For their sake, why they have to work
for many years, 10 years. If they work enough, they can retily and they can lead their life very luxuriously.
World tour they can go with the money what they are having but still they are working up to 65 70 years only for your
futures future settlement that means parents are always working for whom
children but childrens are working for whom to put the parents in the old age
home right uh okay that is a family problems cannot solve the problem right I don't
want to talk much on that tell me now always parents will work for what children. Uh now tell me I have a class
as a parent. In that parent class I have created some methods. Logic is there.
That logic I developed not for this class object for the subclass objects.
I want to execute method logic not for the same class object for its subclass
objects. Then in that case object allowed to create from the super class are not allowed. Not allowed. If you are
allowing to create object of super class user programmer unknowingly creating that object or for example let me take
there is a class called window. What the class name? Window. Window is having
okay there is a class called component. What the class name? Component. There are
different types of components are there. text block component, button component,
window component, you know all these things in HTML. You told that HTML course already completed. In HTML, you
have button, text box is there, text field is there, list is there, frame is
there, uh all these are technically called what? Component. In Java, whenever we have multiple classes of
same type, I must create them as individual as a subasses. Subasses. Who
is a super class of all these classes? Component. So I have a class called class component open bracket closed
bracket and all these are created as subclass of this component class. Clear? Second point in the class component I
have a method called foreground color background color. There is a method
called what? Foreground color. Background color. We have to apply the color CSS. We can apply the color to the
components. Huh? Uh, now component has a shape. No shape. No shape. It is just
representing the type. Label has a shape. I can see text box has a shape. I
can see. Uh, now tell me if I create a component object component C1 equal to
new component. C1 dot foreground color red. C1 dot background color blue.
If something is physically there visible, I can apply the color. Component is physical or logical? Logical. Can I apply the color to it?
No. Then tell me should you allow to create component object or should not allow. Should not allow. Then what
should we do? Declare this class as what? Abstract? Everyone understand? So what is a
concrete abstract class? There is a question called what is a concrete abstract class? A concrete class
declared as abstract is called what? Concrete abstract class. When there is
no abstract method in the class, still we are allowed to declare the class as abstract for stop creating the object of
this class for executing its members on it's a subclass object not on the same
object. For example, component is a concrete abstract class. It has all
concrete methods. Still it is declared as abstract for stopping creating object and calling its methods on the same
object. Okay. Now all these points I will upload the notes. Don't worry just I'm explaining. Okay. Remember this
point after going to home read and understand. Okay. And tell me can we declare a concrete class as an abstract?
Yes. Why? For stop creating object to execute his concrete methods on subclass. Okay. Next very very important
question. Uh tell me now inside abstract class.
Inside abstract class what type of members
we can create? Inside abstract class what type of members we can create? Can I create a
abstract method? Yes, abstract class is a class. Because of abstract additional
feature is added allowing to create abstract method. But first of all basically it is a class. Now because it
is a class inside the class can I create static variable non-static variable? Yes. Static block non-static block yes.
Constructor yes. Static method non-static concrete methods. Yes. Inner classes. Yes. Main method. Yes. All
regular 10 static non-static members plus whatever static abstract method also we
can create regular 10 static non-static members plus abstract method. So inside
abstract class totally how many members we can create? 11 members we can create. Understand? Now there is a very very
very important question asking by the inter compulsory. Can abstract class
has constructor?
Huh? Can abstract class has constructor?
Everyone
satya it is not only because of daughter-in-law it is because of
mother-in-law also. Okay. Huh?
If mother-in-law is taking care of daughter-in-law like a daughter giving the all the responsibilities,
she will be with mother-in-law only. Understand?
Feeling that is your feeling. Okay? Internal problem so many will be there.
You cannot comment always daughter-in-law. Huh?
Mutual problems will be there. Okay? Don't worry. Slowly we'll also realize everything.
See families are broken our relations are broken it's only because of
misunderstandings. Okay. If someone is trying to dominate
others if someone is wanted to you know force you do what I'm saying why will I
do that is olden days. Olden days you know bearing other people. Nowadays that
to after corona no one is ready to bear anybody. Okay.
You have to give the freedom. Parents, childrens are not listening. Parents say
mother-in-law, father-in-law words who will listen. My point that's why mother-in-law,
father-in-law has to change. Even husbands also should change or wives also should change. No one should not
have expectations from others. expectations will start creating problems in the family.
Okay. Why initially lovers are in so much of love? Why later why lovers are
broken up? It's all because of initially no expectations only giving. Giving
gifts. Okay? You know behaving as per expectations without asking only you are
behaving as per their wish. So that is called word giving. As long as you are giving not expecting not asking no
problems are there once you started expecting uh yeah why I
should do as you asked I don't do then break up it's not only lovers wife and
husband mother-in-law father-in-law okay what do you call mother-in-law sister and daughter-in-law all these are
problems are only because of what I don't listen don't expect I don't listen
then problem start so that's I am suggesting you from the beginning have separate families
marriage separate as per the current market trend that is good and even future when you got a
children once they got married ask them get out from my house again I stay separate house take your own family take
your own house rent or whatever separate don't be with us so that they will be happy you will be happy they can come to
your house occasionally and you can celebrate the festivals happily forever you will be love. Uh if you force ray
you should be with us uh fighting daily such a
question number 10 10 10 can abstract class as a
constructor what is your answer yes or no
maybe default constructor maybe no parameters whatever allowed or not allowed array fellows just now you told
inside abstract class we can create all 11 members. First question you agreedh. Second
question is no. Okay. Tell me why. Why you are feeling abstract class cannot have constructor?
Because we cannot create object from the abstract class. We cannot create
abstract class object. So constructor is not required. Constructor must involve in the object creation. You cannot
create object of abstract class. So constructor is not required. Yes or no?
If abstract class doesn't have a constructor the non-static variables
available in the abstract class who will initialize abstract class contain non-static
variable to store value of whom subclass when we create abstract class a subclass
object inside that abstract class so sorry inside that subclass object abstract class non-static variables
memory allocated or for initializing those variables constructor is required or
Yes sir. So tell me abstract class has a constructor. Yes. For what purpose? Why?
Why abstract class required constructor? Can abstract class has a constructor? What is the answer? Yes. If yes, why?
For initializing abstract class non-static variables in subclass. So tell me now once upon a
time long long ago once upon a time long long ago in constructor chopper I told you in Java
constructor doesn't create object constructor only help the new keyword to create object and further it instantiate
sorry initialize that object remember by using this concept can I confirm that constructor doesn't create object yes
okay uh now tell me can abstract class has a constructor yes why for
initializing abstract class non-static variables in the subclass. If enter ask a question, can we create object from
abstract class? What your answer? No. No. Don't stop there. You have to answer
two thing. We cannot create object of abstract class. But it's a member's
memory. It's non-static members memory allocated in subclass object and they
are initialized via the constructor available in the abstract class. These points you have to tell to the
interviewer. Okay. Hope all 10 questions are understood. All these 10 questions with the detailed notes and programs I
will share the material. Will you practice today? Whatever the notes I have given
compulsory you have to practice shape project you have to practice and the assignment vehicle project you have to
develop vehicle and then subasses and then you know uh the methods or else any
example your a choice any example like shape you try to design and develop an example by your own there you have to
see all whoop concepts all the nine whoop concepts you have to show in your project and practice these entry
questions also then tomorrow interface concept will be very Easy interface is
just extension of abstract class. Abstract class interface both are same
only one point is different. Okay. Now thank you. That's all for today class. See you all tomorrow.

