ript


Now tell me how many types of inheritances we are. Five types of inheritances. First one is single level
inheritance. Second one multi level. Third one hierarchal. Fourth one multiple. Fifth one hybrid. Uh five all
five inheritances are supporting by Java. Yes. No. Within interfaces it
supports all five inheritances. With the classes it supports only three inheritances. The first one is what?
Single level inheritance. How many points we need to understand in single level inheritance? Three. First one. A
class can derive from class or derive from interface. A class derive from
class by using extends keyword. A class derived from interface by using implements keyword. Second point. A
interface can derive only from the interface. Interface cannot derive from the class. For deriving interface from
interface, I have to use the keyword extends. Interface cannot derive from the class because class contain concrete
members which cannot be narrated to interface. Third point, if you create a
class, it is not just a singular class. It is deriving from object class. Java.client.object
class. Uh then what is the default inheritance of Java? Single level inheritance. Then second inheritance is
what? Multi-level inheritance. What is multi-level inheritance? If more than two classes or more than two interfaces
are participating in the inheritance vertically then we call it as what multi-level inheritance. Uh now tell me
there is a terminology here also three points are there in multi-level inheritance also three points. Point
number one what is a direct and indirect super classes. Uh look at here class C
is deriving from class B. This is direct super class. Class C also deriving from
class A is it director or indirect? Indirect super class. So there are two
things are there direct super class and indirect super class. Class C extends
from B direct super class. Class C extends from A it is indirect super
class. Okay. Next point in multi-level inheritance to which class super keyword
refers. Tell me you know super keyword now. What super keyword do? Access the members available in the super class. Uh
now it is a trying super keyword in a class C refers to all super classes
available in the super uh all super classes available in the hierarchy. No super keyword refers to only direct
superclass. Suppose if I write super m1 or super dox
compiler software search for x variable and m1 method invade direct super class
if it is not available in the direct super class then only it will go to indirect super class.
Understass
m1 method here. Now M1 method is called overridden method in Bclass. M1 method
is called overriding method. Again I am overriding M1 method in class C also. If
you call M1 method in class C directly by its name or by using this dot
directly by its name or by using this dot then compiler software search for that method in which class current class
already overridden. So it is linking to classes C and executed from classes. If
I use a super.m compiler searching for M1 method in current class super class
who is the current class C who is a super class B in a B class M1 method already overridden yes then it will
execute it from only yeah then answer using super keyword is it possible to
access and execute a overridden method from indirect super class no then can I
use super dots super.m no a dos Super.m no okay compiler throw error only what
you write super M2 then compiler search for M2 method which class indirect super
sorry direct super class indirect super class is M2 method available no then only it will go to the indirect super
class if you hide our override if you hide variable or override method from
super class in subass in the in the next subclass if you access by using super it
will come only from direct super class. These are the three important points from the multi-level inheritance. Now my
question tell me if you create a class deriving from your own another class if
you develop single level inheritance is it really single level inheritance.
You develop single level inheritance. Is it really single level inheritance? No it is multi-level. Why?
uh because that your super class is a subclass of object class
extends class A look at here class B extends class A so this is single level
inheritance what is a single level multi level multi level because class A is
extending from object understood next if I create only class A then is it no
inheritance inheritance what is inheritance single level inheritance extending from object object. This
clarity is important. Now the next inheritance is hierarchal inheritance. Nothing but your family,
your parent and you, your brother, your sister.
Okay, this is hierarchal inheritance. If multiple classes are deriving from
single super class, then we call it as what? Multi hierarchal inheritance.
Multilevel means one child, one child, one child going down. Okay, this is
after corona families. Okay, nothing but latest generation
families. One child coming very difficult nowadays, right? As marriage difficult and the child is double
difficult, right? Because influencing from the superstars, heroes, heroins and
not getting marriage, not getting child. Okay. Now this is your old generation.
Okay. My parents time. Okay. uh now tell me that time you know if child is not
there it's a big insult and one child is there as will not accept in the society
one child parent is lot of no child parent will give some sympathy but one
child parent will give lot of insulting in the society you know really ask your
parents if you want okay no child sympathy will be there I pop okay one
child means lot of insult will be there two means only two children best fellow.
Okay. Minimum three child. Okay. That is what that time trend. Now the trend is what? Zero or one. One child you are
very lucky. Wow. Okay. That how society is slowly slowly changing as no marriage
and inter is a god. Okay. So tell me finally let's not go
deep discussion on the families. Okay. If multiple classes are deriving from one super class interface it is called
what? Hierarchal inheritance. Okay. Why I'm talking about families most of the
time in the class? Because it is inheritance of families only. Now, okay. Some students may be getting angry every
time you're talking about lovers of families because you are getting problem by your friends and your society.
If no lover means best fail that is how the society know one lover there only
one lover break up find for another lover. Okay. And now yesterday I have
seen one show one Telu you know weekend one show in that swam was happened okay
girls ladies are coming actors coming and there past experience past life
something everybody is saying that okay nowadays who is not having past experience many lovers are there okay
accepted this has become open open secret now okay uh so people are accepting Okay, no
problem. How many lovers you have? Have marriage only with me? Don't you have other lovers? Okay, that's how now
slowly society changing. Okay. And next after marriage still you are with your wife and husband not broke up, not taken
diverse. I this is how you know society changing just by talking this I'm just
trying to educate you. Don't break up with your lovers. Lovers no lover. Okay.
And don't break up with your wife and husband. If really is he or she tortured,
unable to live, unable to change, then take break up. No problem. Okay. For
small small things, if you are unable to adjust and if if small fighting what are
you doing question you question me diverse and why you come late diverse.
So small small things also if you are not adjusting small small things also you are fighting and you know looking
for the diverse it's really bad okay so that's what I am telling have some kasi
on your family members and your wife and husband okay uh so come back and now tell me class A is having what class B
class C class D this is what hierarchal inheritance there is a family relation here try to answer
whatever there in your father property or mother property means in the bank accounts or whatever all are belongs to
all the three childrens or not. If your father earning more that more is
coming to what all the three childrens if your father mother is spending that money and you know money losing then
tell me that is also losing to the childrens or not the members and logic we developed inside super class is a
dash to all subasses specific to subasses or common to all subasses are common to all subasses. Second point, if
you modify logic in super class, is it affected to all subasses? Yes.
How can we store some value common to all subasses? I want to store value here in the super
class that will go common to all subasses. Then to store value what I required variable. Then which variable I
have to take in the super class? Static variable. Okay. In the class A I have to
take what? Static variable. Next, if you want to store value specific to each
object, I want to create variable in the super class. That variable must store
value specific to each sub subclass separately. Uh then what I have to
choose here non-static variable. If we modify superclass static variable and non-static variable using one subclass
object, then what will happen? Using class B object I am modifying class A static variable. Is that modification
affected to other two subasses? Yes. Static variable. Now static variable has
how many copies of memory? One. That one copy is accessing by B, C and D. Next,
if you modify non-static variable in a class A, is that modification affected
to other subasses? No. Because non-static variable provided separately in the B object, separately in the C
object, separately in the D object. Understand? Right? So if the modifications happen to the non-static
variable that is not affected to other subasses when you are creating hierarchal inheritance always when
you're creating super class you should think I'm creating static or non-static. Static means common to all subasses.
Non-static means specific to one subclass. Generally in a super class
when you are creating static variable will you create static variable as non variable or final static variable final
static variable because if you modify that affecting to other subasses also now uh if you choose interface in inside
interface we can have variable uh interface is a specification common to
both user classes and subasses. uh inside specification we should provide the members for modifying only for
accessing only for accessing inside interface can I create normal variables?
No. Inside interface we can create only constants that is static final public
static final variable only we can create normal variable if you create also compiler will convert it as what public
static final variable remember that point. Okay. So these are the points about hierarchal inheritance. Okay. Now
first one is what? Static singleton inheritance. Second one is what? Multi multi-level inheritance and third one is
what? Hierarchal inheritance. Clear my point. Abishek you talk along with me. I don't need to repeat. Okay. I don't
repeat. Repeat days are over. If you sit silently if you are not answering you will not catch the point. I will not
repeat. I'm telling you openly. Okay. Now I will not repeat. Especially if you ask I don't repeat. If other students
ask definitely I will repeat. But for you 100% I don't repeat because you are in a bad mode that I'm going fast. You
never get into my train. Second, you never reply. Only you will post the questions. I don't know why you reply.
Be active in the class so that you will catch the points. At least next point. Try to reply.
Don't listen. That's what I'm saying again. You are saying point listening. Don't listen.
Why you are listening? Every day I'm saying same point. Listen, listen, listen. Why or listen?
Don't listen. Reply answer to the questions. Uh hybrid inheritance that
part variable in interface. Stupid fellow. You didn't study interface points
interface. I shared videos. You didn't study.
Answer fast. How much time I should wait for you? uh that's why you are not understanding
subject that's why I don't want it repeat already I gave answers today I'm
explaining the summary you want me to repeat again you always late person you are you are
late cat today topic tomorrow you'll study tomorrow topic day after tomorrow
finally today interview tomorrow you attend job will
M man Manish that is Java 8 new features no we didn't start right then how can I talk about that point
now tell me multiple inheritance what is multiple inheritance if a class is deriving ing from two super classes more
than two super classes then we call it as multiple inheritance. Tell me does Java support multiple inheritance? No.
Answer is wrong. Yes, no or no. Yes. With the class no
interface yes. Class A, class B, class C extends A, B.
It is a compile timer. Two interfaces I created. Tell me these two interfaces
can be derived by either class or by interface. If class is implementing two
interfaces, I should use which keyword implements. If interface is deriving two
interfaces, I have to use which keyword. Will Java support multiple inheritance?
No. Will Java support multiple inheritance with interface? Yes. If you
ask a question will Java support inter multiple inheritance your answer should be no with the classes yes with
interface but with interface multiple inheritance is not multiple inheritance
it is a multiple type inheritance okay multiple inheritance Java doesn't
support multiple inheritance with classes but Java support multiple inheritance with interfaces multiple
inheritance with interfaces should not call as multiple inheritance rather we must call it as multiple type interface
inheritance because interface provides only type. It will not provide properties and implementations. We can
develop inheritance as a subclass will get when we develop
inheritance a subclass will get type properties and behaviors from super class. When we develop inheritance using
interface, a subclass will get only type because interface doesn't contain properties and behaviors. So inheritance
with the interface we must call it as type inheritance not full inheritance
type inheritance we call next point why Java doesn't support multiple inheritance with class what is a diamond
problem because ambiguous ambiguous error in invoking super class constructor fields and methods by using
super keyword what is the diamond problem B and C arriving from A D ar
deriving from B or if you create only A internally it is already subclass of
object. Okay. Then next, how can Java support multiple learners by using interface? Already you know yesterday
I'm not repeat. Next, why multiple support is given using interface? Why is
it not completely eliminated? Yesterday I told you business the Tata company must implement these many businesses. If
multiple is not provided, how one company can provide these many implementations. Right? Next
uh tell me now different different cases in inheritance. A class can derive from
multiple classes. No. A interface can derive multiple interfaces. Yes. A class
can implement multiple interfaces. Yes. A class can derive from one class and
implement multiple interfaces. A class can extend one class and implement
multiple interfaces at a time. There is a confusion here. First extension should
come up. Implements must come up. First extends and then implements. Extends
provide forcibility or reusability. Reusability. Implements provide reusability or forcibility. Forcibility.
First I should force you to listen or reuse to listen. First I should ask listen then I should force you to reply.
First I should allow you to attend the class freely then I should force you to do the payment. Right? Always you have
to first go for what? reusability and then implementation. Uh so if you write
firstly implements and then extends compiler will throw error. Second point there is a small confusion here. Let me
write I have a class called A
and I have a interface called I1. I'm writing class C extend
implements I1.
Now tell me here who is implementing I1.
Come on online students waiting for your answer. Who is implementing I1.
A wait
answer
back.
Next see implements keyword before who is there?
So who is implementing?
Many students are feeling A is implementing. Why? Because how to pronounce pronounce
class C extends a A implements I1. Wow.
Where are you creating class A here? Understand this is creation. Accessing
accessing not creation. Class C only extending A. Class C only
implementing I1. Class A is not implementing I1.
You are not replying only. You say yes or no. Again you will say you are going first
sir replying I didn't see your name and now
you reply hey students all the people stop let reply
a a1 equal to new c compiler not compiler tell me
only other people replied I will remove compiler
Super class in subass. How can we store super class in
subclass?
Then what you should say super class in subclass subclass in superclass.
Uh now tell me I1 I1 equal to new A. Hello.
No no R here A is implementing. Huh?
A no compile time error. Compile time error because A is the not
subass of I1. If you want to see subclass where you have to see wherever available or class
here in the class A implements I1 is not available.
Okay. Uh so very very important extends and implements both when you are using
people are confusing people are feeling uh A is implementing I1 A is not
implementing I1 class C extends A class C implements I1 then what you write I1
right I1 I1 equal to new C. Now this is
no compile time everyone understand
this is very important question remember this
now I'm going first
why you smiling
it ask you smile
If you reply, I will you won't feel that I'm going fast. If you don't reply, watching the
screen, you'll feel I'm going fast. So, be inside the train, not outside of the train. If you stand outside of the
train, side of the railway track, train is going so much fast, 150 km/h.
But if you are in the train, you don't feel the speed. So get into the train. Uh all points what I explained I have
documented here in this slide. Go through that. And next very important there are several test cases are there.
Okay. On this multiple inheritance there are several test cases are there. Case
number one I have class A and I have interface I1. Class C extending A
implementing I1 in both the classes I have M1 M1 with the same signature.
Should I implement this method two times or one time
or should I required to implement not required? All these cases I have documented please
go through yourself. I'm not going to spend the time with you. Interested people learn. Sir, how can I learn? So
where I can learn by following these videos understand
tomorrow day after tomorrow be Sunday Monday two days today watch first
video tomorrow watch second video day after tomorrow to watch third video and
make notes prepare your notes why Monday sir
are you not Indian Abishek
are you foreign not Indian
being a Indian what stupid question you are asking are you in deep sleeping mode what
Monday is election day
okay sir what is your
What are you studying buddy? Are you studying 10th class, fifth class?
Election day is a holiday. You don't know that
if you are a school kid then you don't know because you don't know about elections and all.
If you are a college student you should know that. Are you voting? Are you going on giving
your vote? Yes sir.
Wow. to me. Namaste.
H next is garbage collection.
Yeah. When I when I when I'm contesting definitely I will ask your vote. Okay. You come to Andra and then give vote.
Okay. Definitely in future you'll see in my politics. Okay. No problem.
You shift it to Andra Talangana. Okay. Such a nice person you are.
Thank you. Thank you.
Uh now the next job is which party HK party. What party?
What question you are asking? HK wherever you go HK party I won't
belongs to any party
HK party look at here independent
symbol will be teacup. Yeah. Java teacup
of Java.
My symbol will be Java, Python both will be there.
Okay. People who are doing good I will give coffee. People who are doing bad I will give anakonda. Okay.
So two cups two parties I mean two symbols will be there. Coffee cup one side other side is python. Okay. Both
will be there.
Ah right now let's start understanding garbage collection. Tell me in your room do you have
garbage? Yes. In your brain you have garbage.
So much full of garbage only.
Okay. Uh now look at here what is garbage collection
in our Java also we have garbage cleaning that garbage is nothing but garbage collection. This is our JVM.
Next week 2 days I want to take workshop on JVM architecture at 11:00. Is it
possible to attend? Are you have free time? 11:00 any classes
sir. 11 to 1 sir. No.
Okay. Next Saturday, Sunday. Okay. Now two days. Saturday. Sunday available.
Saturday, Sunday. Next Saturday, Sunday we will plan workshop on garbage collection.
Okay, done. Now look at here. This is JVM.
This is JVM. Inside JVM we have something called heap area.
Inside heap area objects will be created. And we have
another area Java stacks area. Inside Java ST we have
a concept called thread. This is Java stack area JSA.
Inside Java stack area we have thread. The name of the thread is main thread.
Okay. Here in the main thread our main method is executed. Static block
non-static block constructor static method non-static method. entire logic is loaded and executed in main thread.
Okay. From the main thread. Now whenever we write a new example that object is
created in heap area. Tell me how many objects we create in the project. Many
objects. All objects are created here. First object, second object, third object, fourth object, fifth object,
sixth object. Without destroying the previous objects, I keep on creating new
objects. Then tell me the memory space will be filled or not. For example, you
take your mobile in your mobile you have 64 GB let's suppose without destroying
the previous without removing the previous images and previous videos okay
you keep on loading loading loading loading at some point of the time what happen your mobile
hard disk will be filled and then slowly mobile become what slow and then what
will you do you will buy new mobile. Uh no, what will you do? Uh you are going to clean
the memory. What is the meaning of clean the memory? You are selecting the unused
files, unused images, past unused images. Okay. Uh then those images now
slowly what are you doing? You are cleaning nothing but removing you are
removing unused objects and making that memory free for storing the new files
and new images or not. That process is called in Java called what? Garbage
collection. What is garbage collection? A garbage
collection is nothing but the process of destroying unused objects from the JVM
making the memory free for creating new object. That process is called what?
Garbage collection. In Java destroying the objects is not
the programmer responsibility. Those objects are automatically deleted by
JVM. In C++ you are the responsible for creating object. You only responsible
for removing the object developer. You only responsible for creating object.
You only responsible for destroying object. In C++ we have constructor for creating objects and we have destructor
for destroying the objects. Come to the Java. Java developer is not responsible
for destroying the objects. Java in Java programmer is responsible only for
creating the objects. After creating object, JVM will destroy that object whenever it requires. But the question
is when JVM knows this object has to be destroyed. Uh JVM will destroy every
object in Eer. No, no, no. It destroy only unreferenced objects. It destroy
only unreferenced objects. It destroy only unreferenced objects.
Unreferenced object can you access in the next line? No. If you want to access the object, it should have reference the
variable E1. In the next line E1, I can reach the object. So what type of
objects JVM will destroy? JVM will destroy only unreferenced objects.
Next point very important point. How an object can be unreferenced?
Example E1 equal to new example you have written. Tell me is this object which is
the object here? E1 is object. New example object new example is the object
that object is referencing by whom now? E1. Why E1 is referencing this object?
Because it's reference tent stored inside E1. Now after using this object
E1 at some points then somewhere else you realized that this object is no way
related no way used in the further lines then where you don't want to use this
variable there you should unreference that variable to the object. How can we
unreference? There are three ways. We have three ways to unreference the object. First way by assigning
assigning new object by assigning new object already you know in the variable
chapter a variable pointing to one object when I assign a new object to that variable old reference is replaced
with a new reference variable pointing to the new object then old object is
destroyed or old object is eligible for garbage collection old object is
eligible for garbage collection Second assign null. Assign null. E1 equal to null.
Then 10 10 replace with null. Then the reference connection is gone. Next third
create objects as
island of isolation. Create objects as island of isolation.
Sir what is that I don't understand sir I also not understood I buyarted you
also by heart what create objects as island of
isolations so tell me once you create an object this object is become what
referenced object is this object eligible for garbage collection no when an object is eligible for garbage
collection only the object is unreferenced how many ways we can unreference the object three ways
Look at here I'm creating one object example
E1 equal to new exam. Then
E1 equal to next line I'm writing E1 equal to new exam.
This is first way. Second way, E1 equal to null.
First you understand these two ways. E1 equal to n. First tell me diagram. Diagram and representation is very
important. First what happened? E1 variable is created.
Second equal to new example. Because of new example object is created and our
standard variables inside example class were XY
of what type int enter
default value 0 0 store uh what the default value 0 0
after we assign default values 10
I won't write every Okay. Uh 0 0 replace with 1020. This object reference is 10
10 and reference is stored
10 in E1 pointing to this object.
Uh tell me when an object is referencing is it eligible for garbage collection? No. Then how can we make it eligible for
garbage collection? Approach number one by assigning new object. What happen when I assign new object? Another new
object is created here. Can I copy paste?
Another new object is created with new reference word 2020.
Uh now 2020 I have stored it in different variable. same variable 10 and
replace with 2020 20.
Now it is pointing to this second option. When 10 is gone, the
reference between variable and object is gone. Whenever reference is gone, is this object is referencing by any other
object? Sorry. Is this object referencing by any other variable in the program? No. Then this object is
eligible for garbage collection. Very important question. When an object
is unreferenced, is it eligible for garbage collection? Means is it immediately destroyer ready to destroy?
Ready to destroy. Suppose you bought masala dosa parcel
masala parcel. Okay. Uh then you took that masala dosa to your room and then
you finish the eating that completed masala dosa packet paper
will you put in the rack? Will you store for tomorrow that uh along with that completed packet can you
stay in the room? Wonderful scent smell will come. Uh what will you do? You are throwing
that empty paper in the dust bin. Is that empty paper and the dust bin
immediately cleared or ready to clear? Ready to clear? Understood? Uh in
operating system some file suppose here I have a file. Okay. Google this one is
there. If I remove this, is it permanently removed or went to the recycle bin now? Went to the recycle
bin. It went to recycle bin. Can I restore it? Yes. Can I remove it? Yes. I want
restore.
Restored. Uh who is that recycle bin? In Java also
the unreferenced objects are not immediately removing. They are went to where recycle bin. Okay. In Java also we
have recycle bin. Uh so finally tell me the recycle bin concept is called what?
Eligible for garbage collection. The unreferenced object is not immediately
destroyed. The object is sent for eligible for garbage collection.
When will you remove all these objects from the recycle bin? When will we make empty? When I found this recycle bin is
is becoming what do you call full and more memory recycle bin is eating. In the process of cleaning my room, in the
process of cleaning my system, I will make it what? Empty.
Now deleted. And whenever you unreference the object is the object immediately destroyed or not destroyed?
Not destroyed. Object is destroyed later by JVM. When
if JVM memory running low if JVM heap memory running low then JVM will destroy
that elig unreferenced objects. So repeat again whenever object is unreferenced is it immediately destroyed
or is it eligible for garbage collection? Garbage collection is immediately
destroyed or future destroyed. Uh E1 equal to null. What happen? This 2020 is
replaced with what value? Null. Null means null means is it pointing to any
object or not point to any object? Not pointing to any object. Then this reference is also gone. Tell me is this
object pointing by or referencing by any other variables? No. Then this object is
come on everyone destroyed eligible for garbage collection.
Uh now tell me in the written test exam is inter will ask how many objects
destroyed or how many objects eligible for garbage collection how many objects are eligible for
garbage collection is the question you will get. Then in that in that question how can I answer? You must carefully
observe how many objects are unreferenced. That is the number you have to tell to the interview. Everyone
understand? Uh so first point tell me what is a garbage collection? The process of destroying unused objects
unused objects or unreferenced objects from the heap area is called garbage collection. Why garbage collection? If
you don't destroy the objects, heap area will be filled and we will get out of
memory error. Runtime error. We'll get one runtime error and exception. JVM
destroy that abnormally by throwing an exception out of memory error. Third
point, how can we okay when JVM will destroy unreferenced objects? Okay, sorry.
Sorry. When JVM will destroy the objects only when objects are unreferenced. How can we unreference the object? In three
ways we can unreference object. By assigning new object, by assigning null, by creating objects as island of
isolations. Okay. When I unreference object, is that object immediately destroyed? No. Object is eligible for
object is marked as eligible for garbage collection. It is not destroyed immediately.
Now my question when JVM found keep memory is running low will JVM destroy
that object? No. JVM has internally one program called GC. What the name of the
program? GC. GC stands for garbage collector. Tell me when your dust bin is
filled are you clearing the dust? You have one servant. You have one servant in in your hostel.
You only the one owner, you only the servant. Your room you only has to clear. But if you take nari or if you
take your own house, you have one servant for cleaning. Now that servant who garbage collector
catch my point. Now the question try to answer what the job of garbage collector. Garbage collector job is go
to heap area and destroy unreferenced objects. Will garbage collector destroy
the referenced objects? No. Suppose you went to the hotel shop. There is a
self-service. You ordered okay dosa or puri or whatever. Okay. Now you stand at
one table and eating. Then the middle you felt you want to drink water some
spicy or some problem. You want to drink water. Then you are leaving the plate on the table went to the into the water
area in inside room and by that time coming back plate will be there or will
not be there will not be there. Why will not be there? Uh side garbage collector
is waiting when this when this plate has to be cleaned here. What is the plate?
Plate is the object and who are you? reference to that object and the servant
who cleaning that plates and all who is that person garbage collector and the owner who is distributing the the
cashier or the owner who is giving the money is what JVM yes or no if garbage
collector not cleaning the clean the plates on the table JVM owner will scold the garbage collector now that's why
garbage collector is always then you left that half plate and went inside to
drink water by that I'm coming back plate is missing there. Then you started crying mommy where is my plate? My half
half chapati half puri half dosa is missing and you started shouting. Then
the cashier is called garbage collector what you did huh nobody is there that's why remove but the plate is not empty
you are shouting but the plate is not empty yeah I thought of you are not liking to eat that's why half you left
and left then the cashier understood the problem
don't worry buyer I will give one more token free of cost go and buy the new plates okay one and half a plate you are
eating right uh so tell me when garbage collector will destroy the object If it
is unreference, tell me next time when you go to Amogi Fin first you are searching garbage collector there
and you be very careful when you are going for water. Now this time first you bring the water and place at the plate
then you are taking the plate or elseh you are taking the plate along with you to the water room isn't it? Uh so
finally garbage collection understood and tell me who is destroying objects in the JVM is by JVM garbage collector
garbage collector we destroy the object. Okay now uh now I want finally got
clarity this point. Next question tell me when garbage collector is ready to
destroy the objects. Uh suppose suppose
I already first
uh look at here this edit plus I am deleting when I delete means I unreerence. When I unreference it is
came to where now recycle bin. Now the garbage collector came to recycle bin for destroying the objects. Tell me the
moment you are planning to destroy is it immediately destroying asking for confirmation.
Hello I am deleting this file. You want really delete a no no. Ah yes. So two
options there. Yes, no. Uh same way same way. If is yes leave it. If no means
it is available and not remove it and then restore back you can restore it. Now my question is in Java whenever you
remove this object whenever you unreference the object uh this object is
moved into a kind of what concept garbage garbage collection I can say
this is a recycle bin okay recycle bin the object keep now when JVM ask array
garbage collector go and destroy the unreference from unreference objects from eer Then garbage collector will go
to heap area or in heap area recycle bin. in a area recycle bin. It come to
the recycle bin and found these object is this object immediately destroying
asking the user confirmation how it will ask will it prompt one B one
what do you call a window saying I'm removing okay now no on this object dot
on garbage collector on this object dot it will call one method called finalize
uh Tell me when a class is loaded into JVM, JVM is asking you do you have any
initialization logic by calling static block. Remember when class loaded into
JVM static block is executed and asking the developer do any initialization work. When you create object JVM create
object and asking you do you have any initialization logic by calling constructor like how static block on
constructor is calling. Similarly, when an object is eligible for garbage
collection, before destroying that object,
garbage collector will call one special method called what? Finalize. Hello. This finalized method is called on
example object on sample object on A object, B object, student object,
employee object, bank account object, on all objects, on every Java class object.
The finalized method is executed. That means it is calling finalized method from example class means the method must
be available in example class. Now only in example class in every class.
So if it is must be available in every class means it must be explicitly
defined in every class commonly in super class. Who is the super class of all classes? Object. Then tell me where
finalized method is originally available in our new classes. In object class garbage collector created by JVM means a
micro system. Then by in 1995 only garbage collector is created. In 1995
only garbage collector dot finaliz method is called. Finaliz method must be available in 1995 only. Now uh what is
that common common class? Object class. You know object class finaliz method is
available. Now if you wanted to write some logic inside this finalized method
either for confirming the destroy or for reclaiming that object back then we must
override that method in our subclass. All catch my point you must override
that method in the subclass. Okay. Uh now tell me I wanted to know whether my
object is destroyed or not. If destroyed I want write one SOPn this object is
destroyed. For that I have to place SOPn. When this SOPn should execute just
before my object is destroying then where I should write that statement inside finalizing.
Everyone understand? So inter ask a question. How can we make our object eligible for garbage collection by
unreferencing the object fully from all the referenced variables. Number two, how can we finalize our object? By using
what method? Finalize method. Inside finalize method, if you write some logic to climb the object back, then object is
not destroyed. If you don't write any logic in the finalized method, then object is destroyed by JVM. So finally,
what is garbage collection? The process of destroying unusual object from heap area is called garbage collection. Who
will do garbage collection? We have a special program inside JVM called garbage collector. What is garbage
collector? A garbage collector is a demon thread. It is a thread. It is a demon thread. Sir, what is demon thread?
Sir, when you say demon non demon also there are static or non-static demon non demon. Yes, we have two types of thread.
Demon and non demon. What is demon thread? What is non demon thread? Those points we will discuss in the
multi-threading chapter. Next point when garbage collector will destroy our object. If your object is unreferenced
fully then it is a it isible for garbage collection and destroyed. How can I make our object eligible for garbage
collection or unreference? In three ways by by assigning new object reference by assigning null by creating island of
isolations. How do we know our object is destroyed
or not? Write the logic inside finalized method. Okay, all people understand this
is the theory about garbage collection. Now the program look at here I have a
class called example
understand this code I have a class with private field for
initializing this private field I have a constructor also I have written s to
know whether this object is created or not and constructor exe executed for an object creation for which object
constructor executed I'm displaying by using this keyword hope you know when an object is created if you don't override
two string method in our class name hash code will be printed
when this object is eligible for garbage collection and destroyed I wanted to know whether this object is destroyed or
not for that I have written finalize method inside finalize method I written s in finalize this which object created
which object is destroyed trying clear information I have. Now I am creating one small program test zero. Look at
here how many objects are eligible for garbage collection in the program.
How many objects are eligible for garbage collection in this program? How many objects are created? First of all
tell four objects created. Fourth one.
How many new keywords? How many new keywords are there? Those many objects are created. Three new
keywords. So, how many objects created? Three. Example equal to new example one.
Is it referenced object or unreferenced object? Referenced object. Uh tell me at line
number four. How many objects are eligible for garbage collection?
At line number four, how many objects are eligible for garbage collection?
One. Zero. Because you created object assigned to the variable now. Next
line number five. New example. Is it a referenced object or unreferenced object? It is a unreferenced object.
Okay, because it doesn't have reference variable. Next at line number six, how
many objects are eligible for garbage collection?
Zero. Now if an object is unreferenced, it is eligible for garbage collection.
How many objects are eligible for garbage collection? One. Which one? 10 or 20
10 object is still holding by E1. Huh?
It is not unreferenced. 2020 object means line number five created new
example 2020 object is eligible for garbage collection. Line number seven is
there any new object created? No.
Yes sir. New object created assigned to new variable or existing variable. Is
that existing variable already pointing to one object? Then will it pointing to
both objects of old object unreference and referencing to new object?
Old object is unreference and referencing to new object. Then at line number eight, how many objects are
eligible for garbage collection? Two objects are eligible. What are they?
10 and 2020. Next line number nine. What am I doing?
Line number nine. What am I doing? Assigning null to E1. Assigning null to
E1. Then uh
30 object is unreference and the object is eligible for garbage collection. So
totally how many objects are eligible for garbage collection? All three. Now
let me run this program.
Control 1. Compile there is a warning. This is a warning.
Finalize method in object class as a duplicated and marked for removal from
Java 9 version. From Java 9 version finalized method is not recommended to
use because they wanted to destroy internally. You don't want to climb. They don't want
allow you climb back that objects. That's why finaliz method is removed. But still it is available. We can use
warnings. No need to consider. Control two. Here I am able to see three objects
created but I'm unable to see three objects are eligible for garbage collection. Then how can we see objects
are eligible for garbage collection? How can we force garbage collector to
execute and remove? Uh let me ask a question. Can we force garbage collector to execute?
Yes sir. Can I force you don't sleep in the class?
Can I force you don't sleep in the class? Do I have right? Yes sir. Then why you sleeping?
That to intentionally you are sleeping. Correct. Suddenly you woke up and say
yes sir. Thank you so much. Okay. Not
suppose in your roadside one big garbage dust bin is fully filled and overflowing
and it become you know completely watery watery cloudy and it is coming to what main road also what will you do daily
you are scolding and silently going are you protecting there protesting there no
are you calling to muny people and saying that here fully please clear no neverendu
We are always go only one word. What is that?
So slowly slowly we become what you know and I'm not saying that go to the road and fight with the people. Okay.
At least show some uh you know requesting the people to do the some job. At least don't fight because we are
not a hero with a you know six-pack fighting other people. At least request the concerned people. Inform them how
many more if you send the more request to them they will come and work. You have to think is this should be work now
or can be ignored. It must be completed. You have to work. You have to go and fight. Okay. And there are some people
are there unnecessary problems will create. Half dust bin is fil still is there but people are calling right today
you didn't come you can request so you call to muny people can you force them
by evening if you don't come and clean it I will murder you can you say can you
warn them can you force them no can you request them yes ba ba please come and
clean it here okay we unable to stay here if you request will they will they accept will they will they accept your
request Yes. Is there any guarantee they will come and work?
Okay. By by by by accepting your request they started coming to your area. Suddenly mil MLA call come a colony his
place is also getting problem. Then what happen? They will take U-turn and go to that area high priority. Uh so garbage
collector is a municy department people they are ready for cleaning your JVM
method JBM he area. But is there any guarantee that they will clean? No. If
JVM found still memory space is there, JVM may ignore your request. So
repeating again. Is it possible to request the JVM to run garbage collector? Yes. How can we request
garbage collector to sorry how can request JVM to run garbage collector? There are two ways are there. See if you
want request JVM to perform one operation, I have to call method only. Huh? Where is that method available? In
the predefined class called what? Runtime. The JVM is represented by using
a class called what? Runtime. Runtime dot. Inside runtime, first of all, I
should get runtime access. Now I should get access to the JVM. For that I have
to get get runtime. If you want to get student number, what method you have to
call? Get student number. If you want to get student name, you have to call what? Get student name. Similarly, if you want
to get access to the runtime, you have to call what? Get runtime. Is it a static method or non-static method?
Non-static method. I am calling by using class name here. Runtime dot get
runtime. It is what? Static method. Now this method returning object runtime.
JVM object returning to you. Once this place is replaced with object, can I
call object dot further method serment? uh now instead of storing this object in
the variable directly I'm calling what method this is called method call
chaining what do we call method call chaining calling one method by using
another method when I can call one method by using another method if the previous method returning one class
object using that object dot I can call the method if the meth if the method returning is primitive data type or if
the method return type is it you cannot change the method if the method return type is the reference data type class
name and it returning one object that object dot I can call the method uh now
tell me where GC method is available GC method is available in which class
runtime class as a static or non-static non-static get runtime method is static
GC is what non-static in order to call GC method I need a runtime object how
can I get runtime object by using runtime dot get runtime. So totally what is the syntax for calling garbage
collector? How can you request the JVM to run garbage collector? Runtime dot get runtime.gc array. It is very lengthy
statement not understand to the beginners properly. That's why some micro system has given alternate that is
called what system.gc in the class system we have GC method as
a static method. what this GC method is avail what this GC method is doing
system GC simply implicitly calling runtime getr runtimeg only so as a
developer you have two options are there either you can call directly
systemrun getc or you call what now system gc okay generally we will call
systemg and now look at here in the main method I just created objects are unreferenced are those objects destroyed
by the JVM. No, if you want a guarantee, you have to call system.gc.
Tell me what are you doing here? Calling garbage collector. Calling garbage
collector. Requesting JVM.
Requesting JVM to run garbage collector.
It may or may not execute. Sometimes execute, sometime not execute.
Just ignore that one warning and go on run. Look at there three objects
created. Uh observe finalized method is executed. If finalized method is
executed means objects are destroyed. Okay. Uh all three objects
are made as a all three objects are made as a eligible for garbage collection and
all three objects are destroyed. Sometimes JVM may not execute garbage
collector. For guaranteeing garbage collector to run, I have to pass main
method execution. How can we pass main method execution? By calling thread dots sleep of 100.
Thread dot sleep of 100. Okay.
When you call sleep method, I must handle exception.
Okay. Why I should handle in exceptional chapter? I'll teach. I must handle exception.
So I should write here try
patch of interrupted exception. So tell me again
system.gc for requesting JVM to run garbage collector. Thread dot sleep for
pausing
main method execution to allow
GC to run. If other thread is running, other method
is running, GC cannot run. That's why we are passing all these points in multi-threading and exceptionality. we
will run more detail and know control 1 compile
here I'm writing one s
objects created three objects are eligible for garbage collection suppose if I comment this line how many objects
are eligible for garbage collection two objects
Okay, if I comment this line also, how many objects are eligible for garbage collection? Only one object that is
second object. Okay, now right 63 is eligible for
garbage collection. So you have to practice garbage collection with several cases. Uh I have uploaded all test cases
for you. Case one, case two, case three, case five. Totally 19 cases I upload.
Will you work out all these cases? Program the program given to you. In
that program, you have to identify object created object unreference. If
unreference then you should say eligible for garbage collection. How can I confirm that object eligible for garbage
collection? By using finaliz method. If finaliz method executed object eligible for garbage collection. If finalize
method is not executed object is not eligible for garbage collection. So interview will ask one question identify
how many objects are eligible for garbage collection in the below program. So how can you count? You have count top
to bottom how many objects are unreference. Sir how to unreference or how do I know compulsory must draw
diagram like this. Every time whenever see object
immediately you have to draw memory. Whenever the value is unreferenced immediately you have to write strike
mark on that object. then only your mind can count properly otherwise you'll bit miss the bits okay I want to ask one
question here all people think and tell did you watch bwali one bhali beginning
in that bhali beginning uh kalakaya spy come to the mahayishmati
samaraj he steal all the secrets of mahati samaraj
and then shivami Ma has ordered Bahubali and
Balva go and catch him right and finally Bahubali and Balva found that spy
somewhere in the bar and he recognized that oh Bali Bal come then he escaped
Bahali running behind him to catch that spy jump from one hill
also jump along with him by giving the rope to the Baladeva Remember that scene
Baladea felt it's an opportunity for him right what is the opportunity along with the
spy babi also falling down both together will deaday mahmati samra is belongs to
me but unfortunately backside kapa is coming by seeing kapa worst fellow why
you are coming what he did he is now holding the rope h tell me now Very
important. Baladea holding the rope. This rope is
holding bahubali. Bahubali is holding spy. Correct my point. Here bala is even
example even reference variable. Okay. Now the rope is what? Arrow mark
referencing to one object. Which object? Example class object bal
internally is having his hand. Now this hand is holding the hand of whom the spy
the spy is sample class object. Can I create one class object inside another
class object? Yes. Observe observe the diagram. Okay. That bubali diagram is coming here. This is
BP SP and this is Bali
and this is Baladea. Inside Bubali we have one reference
variable of what type? This is sample class object type.
Sample object S1 variable is available. And this is what object example object
example object E1. Now this object reference is 10 and this object
reference is 2020. 2020 stored in S1
pointing to this object and tell me is a sample object eligible for garbage
collection or not eligible? Not eligible because that is holding by example object. Okay. Example object reference
is stored in E1. E1 is holding which object? example. Uh now tell me as long
as example object is referencing by one variable is sample object also
indirectly referencing only now visualize bala as long as holding the row bubali
is safe. As long as bubali is safe hy
is also safe. Now kapa is not coming. Suppose katapa is not coming. What
baladeva is doing now? He is assigning here
null. Tell me if null is assigned what happened? This reference is gone. When
this reference is gone, the rope is gone. Not holding then bali is falling down in that deep hill. Now along with
the bali sample object nothing but spy also going down. uh example object is
eligible for garbage collection. Automatically sample object is also eligible for garbage collection. This is
style of creating objects is called island of isolations.
Understand? Isolations. Tell me island means what?
All four sides of water is there. There is no connection to that place. Then that is called what? Island. Island is
always isolated from the normal living people or not. Uh now tell me here also
these two objects are living in one particular environment where both internally mutually referencing mutually
referencing but those mutual references are holding any any grip is there. No if
one person falling automatically second person also falling. Suppose now fifth floor is there from the fifth floor. Now
tell me you know lover lover breakup they decided commit suicide they're
jumping together holding because parents are not accepting they decided to jump now I have seen from the window people
are falling down now suddenly from the window balcony I catch one person hand automatically two people are safe or not
uh if I am not strong along with them I also go right or right so finally what
is the point now if there is Strong reference what we call it as strong
reference. Tell me the references available within the two objects mutually are the strong references or
weak references are weak references. When two objects are mutually referencing together holding their hands
together no use when they are falling down. No use. They require one strong reference. That strong reference is
what? External reference variable E1. R R
This sample variable implicitly contain E variable. This E variable contain the
reference what tendant it is pointing to this example object and outside S1
variable is available with reference what 2020 pointing to this object. When the reference is gone from E1 variable
are these objects eligible for garbage collection or not eligible? not eligible because S1 variable is having the
reference to sample sample having the reference from exam.
Both external references are unreference. The mutual references between the objects are weak references
and the objects are eligible for garbage collection. Is it clear my point? So this is the complete story about garbage
collection. What is garbage collection? Why garbage collection? How can you do garbage collection? When garbage
collector will destroy the objects. Uh when strong references are not there, weak references not there. Strong
reference. If two objects are mutually referencing each other, are those references considered by garbage
collector? No. One external strong reference must be there to not to touch the objects. Okay. And can we request
the garbage collector to destroy the objects? Yes. How? Two ways. System dot
runtime.gc. Sorry, runtime.getr runtime.gc. And second one is what? System.gc.
So these are all points you have to practice to qualify in the interview room. In the written test exam you'll
find one or two questions on the garbage collection asking identify how many objects are eligible for
garbage collection. For that what you have to identify how many objects are unreference which unreferences you have
to see weak references or strong references strong reference. Clear my point. So for practice purpose I give 19
questions for you. Practice them. If you find any question difficult, please let me know. I will explain. Is it clear?
Right. Tomorrow day after tomorrow you don't have classes complete uh types of
inheritances all the videos so that the complete covered topics revision will be happen new points you are going to learn
so that Monday and I mean Tuesday and classes will be easy for you. Clear my point right. Thank you. Happy long
weekend. Enjoy the day and try to give the vote and right person right party.
Don't give importance to religion and don't give importance to that. Who will make good to you and your next
generation only give to them. Thank you.
Completed class you can go. Why are waiting for others?
Hi students, any doubts
parameter.
We can create and in subass we have to call that constructor by using super code
and extend from class. So when I aal
a A1 equal to new B A1 variable is referencing to the A class memory
available in the B object.
your answer confused. There is no point of abstract class or normal class. Point number one
either it is abstract class or normal class. If you define parameterized constructor open bracket closed bracket
then when you're writing subclass B extends from a
compiler software implicitly placing default constructor inside default constructor compiler placing super call
because of the super call match is not there that's why you're getting compile time there's no point of you created
object or not created object how to solve this problem based on the
super class parameter in subclass you have to play super call by passing the argument not this
doesn't matter
If you create a A1 equal to new A which class object created then a class with
object class then A1 variable pointing to a number.
If I write a A2 equal to new B
object is what? B class means B A
object variable is what type A then it's pointing to A class
how how your property come to your brother. How your knowledge will go to your brother? That's your property. One
subclass member is not available to another subass. If you want that variable for both the
subasses, you should be in the superass that is not abstract class. Don't focus on abstract class. Super class. If you
want to get the things for multiple subasses, you have to create that variables and methods in their super
class. That super class can be a concrete class or abstract class can be
anything.
Yes. So for example I'm writing interface I1 inside 2 three four abstract methods are there. I want
implement only one method. Then what you write abstract class A implementing I1
then only that one method implementing remaining methods I'm leaving as abstract my nexus subclass of A will
implement that remaining abstract okay
ask admin
That's what I am not aware of. You have to check it.

