ript


So last class we have completed last class we have understood how to
work with packages right everyone understood did you practice
packages
okay so what we have learned in last class first before before last chapter
we have a folder. Okay.
This is our project folder.
Okay. In the project folder, nothing but chapter heading, right? chapter folder
or project folder whatever in this we are directly creating first Java file
second Java file third Java file fourth Java file fifth Java file all the Java files what we did we dumped everything
we have created in the same folder okay for practice purpose if you create like this it's okay not a problem but when
you developing in the project every class is performing one particular operation so
saving all the classes in a single folder is programming practice. Okay. So what is
the solution for this? The solution for this is what we are doing. This is our
project folder. In project folder
in a project folder in project folder we are creating first what? Packages.
Package is nothing but again what folder. Okay. We are creating first folder uh second folder. Will you create
this folder name with a dummy name with the concept name? Concept name. This class performing operation concepts we
are creating what folders and we are saving the java files andclass files in
this particular folder. So what is the just name we are taking? B logic some class name or some package name what you
chosen B logic and some other name what DAO
some other name is what uh pojo
pojo uh some other name is what controller
controller like this based on our class performing operation functionality we
are creating classes
Okay. So now here inside this package what are we doing? We are going to
create our java files and then what dot class files. Okay for example I'm taking
this name is what? A dot and b dot. And here uh in another package say pojo
class is c java file.
ct java file dt java file okay
this is not Yes.
Okay. And next in the DO package also we have Et Java file, F dot Java file and
in controller also we have uh FG gava file and H Java. Like this we have
several Java files we created organized based on their classes. Now very
important point these are the topic yesterday we complete today we need to understand tell me
in a project will you create all classes as individual classes? No we will create
all classes as accessing from another class. Right? Uh now tell me DO means what? It is meant
for storing data inside database to store data inside database. It has to
collect the data where the data is available in the POJO. So that means do
class must access what POJO classes. Next who will access the DO class? Do
class is accessed by whom now? Controller class. So what is the point?
DO has to access OJO classes. Controller has to access POJO classes. Controller
has access DAO class. Business logic class access DAO class and also access
what? POJO class. Then how can we access one package class from another package?
Okay, yesterday we discussed one point. What is that class path? We learned right? Yesterday
we discussed about class path. Class path is meant for accessing one package
from another package if they are available in different folder. Different
folder. They are not packages. They are folders. Class path is used for accessing a class
that is available in different folder. Okay. Now there is a concept called
import. What the concept name? Import. What the use of import? accessing the
class available in different package. Okay, different package. So what is the
difference between folder and package? Folder is just a folder. It is no way related to the class. Okay, package is a
folder which is used inside the class name. So tell me here folder is nothing but C/ test C test is the folder. Inside
test folder I have the class. Okay, inside test folder I have class. If we want to access the classes available in
the folder, I have to use what class path. Now I want to access in C/ test
folder. We have package a okay we have package a I want to access this package.
Uh then what I have to use import okay I want to access the package available in
this folder. To access this folder what I have to use class. Everyone understand? So if you want to access
classes from one package to another package, I have to use what statement? Import statement. So tell me what is the
difference between package and import package
import class. So totally three things are there and tell me what the use of package for creating
package. Okay, package. Next, what the use of import for creating package or
for accessing? For accessing package uh what the use of class for accessing
or you can say for locating for locating the package for locating the folder in
which in which the class or package is available.
for locating the folder in which class or package is available. So these three are little confusion points. Hope you
understand. First one package keyword is used for creating package. Second one
import keyword is used for accessing the package. uh accessing package or
accessing the classes available in
available in the package or you can say classes from package.
Okay. Uh package is meant for creating package saving classes. or
saving classes. Now next import for accessing classes from package. Third
one class path is used for locating the folder in which the class or package is
available. So these three points are very very important. Let us try one example now. Open
plus. Now let's go to the folder. Always remember while working with the packages
first you have to open the folder D drive uh 9:00 a.m. Go to package folder.
In the package folder, I don't have any package folders. Okay. Now, let me delete these two files also. I want to
create a class called in this class. A I am
creating one static method. static y m1 open bracket closed bracket system dot
out dot print len of print ele and I'm creating one non-static method
inside I'm writing system dot out dot print of double quotes a m okay create
delete this main method save it now go to d drive go to your folder and
go to package folder. In package folder, saving this file name as what? Aer java.
Uh now first you compile this folder. H sorry compile this file. Open command
prompt
java c - d dot a do java right remember yesterday
command and then here package folder is created
okay a class file created oh I have not used package keyword Okay.
Package P.
Clear screen. Delete. A dot plus Java C - D dot A
Java. Compile.
Okay.
Next. Now I'm creating another Java file
class in sorry package
I'm creating a same package P1 package P1 class B
okay now I want to access a class here a dot m is it possible to access
b java okay look at here go to command prompt Clear your screen. Java C.
This class B belongs to which package? P1. Class A also belongs to which
package? That means both classes are belongs to which package?
Same package. Both are belongs to same package. You are A. Your friend is B.
Both people are available in the same room. Then do you need phone calls? Can you talk directly?
fd dot b java do I need any class path or do I need any import statement to
access a from b not required compile successfully java p1b executed
successfully output coming what am everyone understand when I required
import statement for accessing one class from another class if they are available
in different package currently both classes are available in which package same package then import statement
required or not required not required. Now I am creating another Java file
called C. Inside C I want to access A dot
A dot M1. Now AM1 A class is available which package? P1. But C I want to
create in different package. Okay. C. Java. Then now open command prompt. How
much time you will see man? You want counter? Other while like a
thief you are coming slowly inside. Uh now tell me so now Java C - D dot uh
what you write C do. Java and tell me separate package is created now. Uh but
program compiler not compiled not compile. We are getting compile time error cannot find symbol what a variable
A. And tell me what the solution to this problem. You want you have compiler software checking for a only in the
package called what? P2. Only in the package called P2. But I want to tell to compiler or a compiler this class A is
not available in package P2. It is available in package P1. So what you write import P1. If I write import P1,
you want access P1. The class available in P1. Uh so you write P1.
If I write only P1 what I can do by accessing the folder now this person
coming into the class open the door looking seriously looking inside what the use of it he has to come inside and
access the chains no right same person so this P1 is accessing package is waste
I want access the classes available in the package for that what you write P1 dot star means what all classes
available in the P1 I can access you want access all classes or one class
your wish one class means you write their class name a all classes means you write what star all right so I'm writing
p1 a okay recommended is p1a so that it clarity will be there and now tell me if
I compile what I'm telling to compiler software compiler software go into c java okay hares now I came uh now this
java file belongs to which package p2 and this p2 package is accessing which package p1 which class A okay then
classes C creation main method creation A means creation and accessing accessing
from which package you are asking to access P1 then in the present working directory compiler software searching
for what P1 package P1 package available yes in the P1 package searching for what
class A class A available yes can we access on can we access
can we access can we access know
why you cannot access
if you want to go from India to US just
passport sufficient no what required uh import statement is
passport you have passport by showing passport if you try to enter it into US
police people will catch and shoot you yes or There is get out. Okay. Uh so
what is the point you need to understand here? If the if you want to access the classes from one package to another
package, I need two things. Number one, code statement. Number two, the class
must be public. The class must be public. Uh now tell me here now I am
trying to go to a class and declaring this a class as what? Public. Save it.
Compile. Compile clear screen. What you have to compile first? A then compile B.
Sorry, compile C. Now look at there. I got one more error. What error?
Uh what another error? M1 is not public in A. So tell me you
have passport, you have visa, can you go to US? What else also required? Ticket
required without buying ticket how can I go and your body must be ready to go you
are saying passport visa I cannot go so just by making the classes public are
its members become automatically public no if your father is collector are you collector no right same point here so if
you want to access a member from other class other packaged classes not only class its members also must be public
Okay, clear screen. Compile. Sorry. First I have to compile class A. First I
have to compile class A and then compile class C.
Look at that. Now program compile Java C Java P2 C. Now executed successfully.
I'm getting what? AM1 output come. Everyone understand how to access the one one package class from another
package. Okay. Now I want to take one more example. Now I am deleting P1 from
here. Okay, deleted P1 from here. Now I am compiling Java C - D dot uh what do you call uh
sorry Java C C/ test A. Java
and now tell me P1 package and class A is created in the current directory. Another directory another directory open
test folder C drive test P1 in P1 A.class class is created. Clear my
point? Now I want to access the class a
java c - d dot c dot java. I want to access a class
from c java. What are the rules we have to follow? Rule number one.
Uh you should have import statement. Uh do you have import statement inside uh c
java? Yes. Rule number two, the class must be public. Is the class is public?
Yes. Rule number three, its members must be public. Are its members public? Yes.
Then rule number four is coming into picture. Just by creating class as a
public and members as a public by accessing import statement, class is not available. It is available as long as
the package is available in the same C. Java file pack folder.
If it is available in another folder will it work or will not work? Will not work. We'll get compile time. What
package P1 doesn't exist. Where it doesn't exist in the present working
direct. Where it is exist in another folder. Then how can I tell to compiler
hello compiler P1 package is not exist in the present working directory. It is
available in another directory. What should I do now? I have to set class path. Set class path equal to C/ test.
Follow my point. First you set the class path, then add import statement and then access the class. Look at there. Now
compile successfully and then executed successfully. Java p2s C execute.
Why? Cclass is not executed. Look at there error coming. What error?
Could not find our load class P2. See,
think until in our present working directory.
In the present working directory,
D drive packages
P2 is there or what compiler soft is telling? could not
find our load main class P2 C where
where ah C col why
because you set the class path when you set class path JVM will not consider
present working directory it will consider only C col
everyone Understand again repeating when you create class path compiler JVM
software doesn't consider present working directory it will consider only class
sir I want to tell to compiler I want to tell to compiler consider present working directory also
then in a class path in a class path I must also add what dot dot semicolon dot
semicolon C/ test then when you type java p2. C
compiler software and JVM software search for the package p2 in which directory first present working direcing
p1.a compiler and jvm software search for p1.a where in present direct is it
available? No. Then searching in where C col is this is it available there? Yes.
From there it is accessed. So tell me in class path can I place multiple directories? Yes. What is the separator
from one directory to another directory? Semicolon. Semicolon is the separator. Everyone understand how to access right?
Tell me all points here. I will type. Now today what we have completed
understanding import statement. Last class we completed package. Today we are trying to understand import number one.
Uh what is import?
Uh what is import? Import is a keyword.
What is import? It is a keyword. Uh second why import
it is used for importing is import the classes from P1 package to
P2 package. It is not the you know goods importing exporting. Okay. It is used
for accessing accessing the classes which classes all
classes are public classes. Accessing the public classes from where
to where
from one package to or I can say accessing of
accessing the packaged packaged public classes from
other packaged classes. Now third third point
what is its syntax and tell me what is its syntax?
import package name dot star
or import package name dot class
semicolon. Uh fourth, which syntax is recommended? What are the differences?
What are the differences between above syntaxes and tell me what are the differences?
Import package name dot star import package name dot class name class
name cm. Now what is the difference? Package name please. Can I write P1star?
Better for your clear understanding. P1. P1.Class name. What is the difference?
Uh allows us to access
uh uh all classes are
all public classes. Next allows us to access
only class A.
Uh next second point, it doesn't
verify any class
inside this package. And if you write
If you write P1st start, it will just verify P1 available or not. Inside P1,
one or two classes available or it should not be empty. If not empty, it's okay. At least one or two Java files
must be there inside. Uh whereas if you use this package
the class A okay means the class A
uh A Java file
or A.class file
must be
available in this package P1
else we will get compile understand third
point very important with this syntax
we don't get auto compilation what the meaning of
auto compilation If you access a java file, a java file is not automatically compiled with
p1.star because p1star means are you referring to any class? No, we are referring to
all classes. With this syntax, we don't we don't get autocompilation.
Java ids compile
only when we access class name
in code. Uh whereas here either we
access or not in code
a java file is automatically compiled. Okay. Now let me show you these points.
Now go to c java. Here I'm writing p1.star star and here I'm not using a.m just I'm
leaving go to package
p2 and here what am I doing up to now I created a java file outside we can also
create java files inside the package folder and actually recommendation is
create inside the package folder only for your understanding purpose I created outside
save
As for the project, we don't create Java files outside. We'll create Java files inside inside the package. Manually we
create the package folder and we'll copy them inside the package folder. Here also we'll create package P2 and we'll
save C. Java file inside the package P2 so that we will get auto compilation. Observe. Huh? Go to here clear screen.
Java C - D C Java. Uh if read C Java file compiler software search for C Java
file where in the present working directory in the present working directory C Java file available or not available not available it will throw
error where C Java file is available in a P2 folder. So what I write P2/ C Java.
Now observe automatically compile. Go to P1. Inside P1, any Java file compiler
not compiled? Not compiled. Observe. Observe the Java file one more time. Open C. Java file. Inside C. Java file.
What you have written? P1.star. Star means all classes not particular
any class. Because we have written star, it will go and verify in the P1. Are there any Java files or class files?
Yes, that's it. It will not compile any class. only Cclass is compiled and coming out. Now uh Cclass is compiled.
Observe in P1 package any class compiled or not compiled? Not compiled. Now in place of dot I mean in place of star I'm
writing what? A. If I write a okay one minute one minute star and here I'm writing A. M1 inside the code inside the
code I am accessing which class a now a Java file automatically compiled.
Observe. Clear screen. Clear screen. Open P1 package and observe
compiler A.Lass. Right? When will you get auto compilation? If you place Java
file in the package folder and if I write class name inside the Java program somewhere, then the class will be
compiled. Now what am I doing? Delete thisclass file. Delete thisclass file.
Go to C Java. Remove the statement. And here I'm writing P1.
Tell me indirectly you're accessing class name here or not. Then will compiler will compile the Java file
automatically or not. Uh observe now again compile. First I have to save the save it already. I go to P1. Uh I am not
accessing the class name as part of the code. Then look at there automatically a.class is compiled. So what this what
the point we need to understand many of the students are having only one point in their mind. What are the difference
between import dot star and import a uh dot star allows us to access all
classes. Uh do a access only only allow to access only class A. So
this is the only the point people knows but if you go deeply little bit more then we'll get to know some other points
and what is that if I write import p1.star it doesn't verify the classes
available. It doesn't verify the classes available inside this package. what is there what not there it doesn't care a
there b there c there it doesn't care uh now suppose I am writing here observe
delete this one and I'm writing here a aa java I have written what a aa java
and now go to c do java file c java file c java file where is this go to c java
file and here I'm writing star if I write star means what any class any
class inside c java file as long as I'm not accessing any class just import statement verify P1 available in P1 do
you have any classes available Kam that's it will not go and check any further classes it will not verify any
classes in the Java file look at that uh now if I write if I write here a
compulsory this class a Java file aclass file must be available if not available
compiler will throw error that is the point we have written here check notes uh the A java file file or a do.class
class file must be available in this package p1 else we will get compile time error observe now a class is not there a
java file is not there so compiler will throw error
I didn't save this
hey
It's compiling. Must not compil.
Oh, one second. And it is going to CQ and test. Class path. Class path. What is the
class path? In class path we have written dot C test. No, it's going to C test. P1
is taking a class. Okay. First it is going to dot in the dot P1. A dot class
is not there. Then going to C test in C test. A dot class is there. It is going
on connecting there. Delete from here on.
My point is correct understand that's what every time I am
saying compiler think like a compiler think like a compiler if you don't learn compiler and JVM algorithms you cannot
correct correctly answer the questions so I know this point already verified previously next versions of it change
should not be changed because here I am accessing the class name a clearly I told to compiler go and access a it must
access Why it is accessing? Then I just asked what is the algorithm? Search in the present directory not available.
Then search in the next direc.class
file must be either a java or a.class file must be available.
Uh else it will get compiled. This point also we experience. Next with the syntax we don't get auto compilation either
access or not access either either we access or not access
class A in the code a java file is automatically compiled.
Let me show you this point also one more time. Now go to
go to present working again we come two times test only data close this
come to D drive 9 a.m. package
uh P1. Uh observe here we will get auto compilation or not. Clear screen. Uh now
we will get compile time error. I am replacing this name to what? A only with
this syntax automatically a class is come. Up to now all you understand three
points. And next very very very important point. Can we create a class?
Can we create multiple classes in single Java file? Can we create multiple classes in single
Java file? Yes. Class A, class B, class C, I can create. Then when I compile this multiple Java file class, how many
dot class files are generated? As many classes you have those many class files are generated. A dot class, B.class,
C.class. Observe here.
Uh look at here. I am giving here C do Java file. I am trying to create a class
called A. Okay. Inside this Java file I am
creating class A. Uh then tell me when I write class A here already you linking
this Java file to one class available in the P1 or again you are linking this
Java file with another class local class. Say with the same name can two classes
existed in the P1 P2 here confusion or not? Everyone understand? So here you
are telling that in this Java file access the class A from P1 package. Again you are telling in the Java file
access class A. It is a confusion to the compiler. Compiler now throws error.
A is already defined in this compilation unit. Remove import statement because
the first priority will be given to whom now? Class A. And now it is asking remove this.
Are you catching my point? Now if right stop tell me did you mention class A here? No. Then is this class A allowed
or not? Yes. Observe. Now there is no compile time error.
So what is the important point? For the fourth point
with the name aa we can create
a class in this java. These points you will not find in
textbooks. These are the practical examples we face in the projects development. That's why you have to
in this java file we can create a class
with the name a uh what is the statement here
in this java file okay here a direct I'm writing we cannot create
compiler throws error
compiler throws error. Okay. Now, uh now next point very important. Fifth point,
confusion point. Shall I try? Shall I try this fifth point? Fifth point is confusion. Now
I am creating one more Java file here. Alt Fn Java here in C Java file. I'm
deleting this class A. Here I'm creating class A. And uh here also I'm creating
method call static wide m1. And here I'm writing system dot outprint
ln p2 dot a.m okay
just I'm printing this is the message saving. Now tell me is it possible to create a class with the same name in two
different packages? Yes. In P1 package we have class A. P2 package also have
class A. Save it. It is also public. It is also public. Okay. And it belongs to
which package? Package P2. Save it. Then go to uh look
at here in a package p2 we have a do java deleting both okay we
have a do java in package p2 package p2 we have class a okay observe now class c
I have written p1 dot star and here I'm writing a1.m
all people tell me now class A will be accessed from current package p2 or p1 1
imported package P1, current package P2 or imported package
P1. Imported package. Current package. Okay,
super. Let me go and compile. Uh, compile it.
Execute.
From where coming current package that means start giving
first priority to import package current package
in case of duplicate class.
The class is access from
what? Current package.
first priority to
current package. It means in case of duplicate class the
class A is accessed from current package. Uh here tell me opposite
first priority to current package imported package
imported package. Okay means the class A is
accessed from the package P1 or P2 P1. Let's see now. Uh go to
C Java file. Change P1. A. Uh. Now go to
command prompt. Java C. Compile.
Execute. What is output coming? AM1. AM1 means P1. So these all points about ping
port statement you have to remember. These all related to what? Compiler relate. All points are related to
compiler. Compiler allows us to access all public classes. It allows us to
access only class A. It doesn't verify it means what? Compiler.
Okay. Import p1.star doesn't verify in case of import p1. Compiler doesn't
verify any class inside this package. Whereas compiler verify whether a java
file or a.class file available or not. If not available, it will throw error. With this syntax, compiler doesn't
compile a java file. With this syntax, compiler will compile a java file. Even
though we don't access the class a in the package, I mean in the code. Next, in this uh in this java file, we cannot
create class with the name a but we can create and in the case of a we cannot
create compiler through error. First priority to current package, first priority to imported package. Then now
last important point tell me which syntax is recommended to use star
in a project which is syntax is recommended to use star. If I write star
what is the problem? Class is accessed from import package current package then why you are writing
import package. If you want to give first priority to
current package then why you writing import package? You are writing import means your intention is access the class
from P1 package. Now so which syntax I have to write in the project do a
maybe unknowingly in the future other developer may create the class with the same name in the current Java file and
then the class will be linking to current Java current package Java file or not. Is it a problem or not? Reason
number two if write star what are the classes you are using in this Java file in the current Java file has a lacks of
lines of the code in this lacks of lines of the code what are the classes you are accessing from P1 package can I can I
guess no uh so if you write P1 class name two pro two advantages are there
number one always the class is accessed from imported package desired class is
executed second reason we can easily guess what are the classes accessed from
this package package and we can come to your decision the logic available in this package. For example, I have seen
import io java.io. Then tell me IO package is meant for
reading writing data in the file. If by seeing import IO start in this Java file
whether you are reading data now writing data can I decide I cannot decide cannot
using IO package I can perform three operations. Number one, you can create files and directories. You can read data
from the file. You can uh re write data to the file. Three operations I can do. You return just import java.io.star.
If I write star, are you creating files are reading data from the filer? Writing
data to the filer. Can you come to a quick quick conclusion? No. If I write import java io file semicolon file is
meant for creating the files. Oh, in this project this programmer is creating
files. I can come to a decision or not. Uh if you see import iO
reader, oh this in this Java file, this programmer reading data from the file.
So by writing the class name, I can come to a quick decision on the logic developed in this Java file. Everyone
understand? So what is recommended to use in the project dot start or do class name on? Class name. Okay. This syntax
is not recommended
because of because
number one current package class or you can say
number one import package class is not given is not given.
First priority number two
cannot know the classes
accessing
from the from
the package.
Uh now tell me what the what are the point here? 61 this syntax is
recommended by
same points. Number one, import package class
is given first priority. Second,
easily we can guess.
We know the classes
accessing from this package
and easily
we can guess the logic
developed in this Java. Okay. Now these are the six differences
are there between import
P1st star and import P1. So what do you have to do? You must remember all these
six points. Practically you have to practice and remember. Generally
students will tell only the first difference to the interior. Allows to access all classes. allows to access
only one class.
Okay. Now only one class. Uh so you try to tell public allows us to access all
public classes allows to access only one class that is a one class that is
imported class A. Only this.
Okay. Only one class. Enough. Let it be everybody using the word remaining five
points if you tell to interviewer he will get shocked and if he's a good
technical person will give you job if he is a
politics person he will not give you job understand there is a problem in
software industry if the manager is a kind of mean-minded person
he will not give the job to The more knowledged people why
the problem with the more knowledged people not jealous
easy job problem he will occupy easy job not when you start performing better than
that manager is a job is in threat no that's why generally if you are showing
your full talent to the interviewer he will not give you
And next there is a problem to the students who are getting 90% 95% in academics they also not getting calls
if in your academics B tech if you have 90% of the percentage in your college
certificate then you are not getting calls from the MNC companies MNC company's policy got changed they are
giving job only for the students who are having the percentage between 70 to 85.
If less than 70 more than 85 you don't get calls. Then what to do sir? Why they
are not giving the calls to the less than 70%. 70% less you are more spending
the time for extracurricular activities not for education. Your brain not having
proper calculations that's why you are not get called. The people who are having academics percentage more than
85% you are giving only importance to education not extracurricular activity
then with you there is no use in the company. We need a person who is having balance between education and
extracurricular because in the companies also there will be a sports competitions
will be there you know cricket volleyball football in enter companies okay corporate competitions will be
there for that they want sportsman and moreover if you don't have society knowledge okay as a software engineer
you can only write the code means you cannot give the best product you should also have awareness on society that's
why every time in the class I'm telling telling you take the real time example try to analyze how the business is going
on in the market how this product is developed how can I develop this product how can better way I can develop the
product so there are so many online shopping applications are there among them why Amazon getting more product
sales why flipkart getting more product sales because it's a user friendly so
the pro the why phone pay is having more reachable in the market why not other
apps because phone pay is a user interface is it hello I'm not promoting
okay no I'm not promoting okay just as for the business you know comparison I'm telling whatever there in the internet
why phone pay is having more accounts why not other UPA apps so banks also providing UP apps or not bank is also
telling you don't need have to use any UP app directly use my bank account app only as a UPA also but people are using
it no so that is called user friendly user friendly app easy reachability more
options are required provide. So you as a developer you have to provide all these facilities to the user then only
your app will have more sales in the market. Okay fine. So now finally when you are trying to tell these many depth
points to the interviewer within one or two questions the way he is accepting
your answer the way he responding to your question you should carefully visualize his mentality and then you
have to give more answers. Next remember on a same topic more than five to six
questions you don't encourage him to ask and if he's going deep deep deep deep deep somewhere you stop multi-level
inheritance more deep going is a bad I told somewhere you should declare class as a finer similarly on the same topic
if he's asking going on going on going deep going then you have only 40 minutes time to to
verify your knowledge on the same topic 40 minutes if he is asked the when you will verify your knowledge
and finally we'll get the job. No. So how you should answer such a way your
question answer should link to the next chapter. Okay. For example, if you ask a
question, can you tell something about packages? Yeah, package is a folder which is linked to a class in a Java
file by using the keyword package. It is a collection of related classes and interfaces. For example, you consider
our Java language. We have a predefined package called util package which contain different collection classes
under one package called util. We have another package called IO which contain the different classes working with what
IO file IO and we have a package called SQL which contain different classes to
perform operations on database. Uh now tell me you link this package
chapter to how many three chapters collection IOS teams and JDBC. Automatically his mind is moving from
package to what? Okay. Do you know collections tell something about collections? Yeah. A collection is a group of objects. It is used for
organizing objects in a proper order and different formats. For example, you want to store objects in table format, we
have to use table. If you want to store objects in key, if you want to store objects in array format, we have to use
array list. Okay. Can you tell something about table? What are the internals of
hash table? Then from the internals of hash table, you have to connect to JDBC. In JDBC we have table kind of table only
has table. So you have to control the interviewer with your answers. You have
to take him from one chapter to another chapter. That is way you have to practice. How to
connect this chapter to another chapter only one chapter one question. So that you know what what what what based on
what only you have to take him to all the chapters. 40 minutes time completed he look at your face such a intelligent
person. Don't go anywhere. I'll give appointment letter. Why software engineer should have a
knowledge on strong knowledge on need what why enough coding deep coding
knowledge not required deep coding knowledge automatically Google and chart GP will give you no
catching my point what knowledge you should require awareness subject awareness how much more awareness on
subject more awareness on realtime projects you know structure architecture if you have easily you get the job.
Interiors are also looking for that kind of candidates only. Okay. So please learn everything but how much you have
to deliver your subject to the interviewer that much only tell to him not more than that. Already you proved
you are best in the written test exam. Right? Written test exam you passed and you are technically very strong. Now you
have to prove that subject wise concept wise also you are too strong. In the written test exam once you completed
pass and move to the second round in the facetoface round don't show your depth knowledge show your subject awareness by
giving answers connecting to next chapters that way you have to prepare your answers okay uh finally you hope
you understand how to access one package class from another package everyone understand right I will ask one small
question here observe I'm taking one more class Here
I'm taking one more class B. This class B want to access class A y1
method and tell me class A is available
in how many packages? Two packages. I am creating this Dclass
in the package P3.
Okay, tell me here I want to access class A from P1 package. What you write?
Import P1 A. Okay. Uh A I'm not writing star. I
am writing import P1st star. Uh no no I want access Bclass B. M1.
Uh one minute. Let me open Bclass also.
In p1 package we have b java assume here I'm creating this class is also public
and I'm taking here public static wide m2
system outprint ln what you write uh double quotes
vm2 save it go to command promp uh now go to this uh d java file I want access.
Let me take this as M3 method. Okay.
BM B class in which package P1 A class a
which package P2? I'm writing import P2 start.
What happened? Tell me is this program compiled or not compiled?
Come on, everyone should decide.
Is this program compiled or not compiled?
Yes. Yes. Come on.
Add compiler. Compiler.
Come on here. Use your knowledge a little bit. What the meaning of a create a access
from which package? Current package. What the current
package? When you write star just now I told you now when I use star uh first given to
whom now? Current package. What the current package? P3. In P3 package class A available or not available? Not
available. Then next priority to whom now? Import package. Import P1. Compiler
searching for class A in which package now? P1. In P1 package class A is available. Yes.
Will it access A from P1 directly? Check in P2 also. It will verify class A in P2 also. In P2
also. Class A available. Can compiler take decision from which package this class to come?
No. Compiler cannot take decision from which package this class has to take. Now we
got compile time error and give us error.
P3 D. Java reference to A is ambiguous. both P2.A
and P2 P1.A and P1 match. So what did you understand? If we if the class is
available in multiple imported packages then compiler get confused and throw
error. What error? Compile time error. Ambiguous error. Then how to solve this
ambiguous error. And tell me in my classroom there are two students whose name is Har Krishna.
Har Krishna admin come call Har Krishna then both are stand admin confused one
minute and he'll go outside ask the parent which Krishna you want there are two arrishnas are there surname asking
now what the meaning of surname in Java what is the meaning of surname
package name uh now what the package name p1a m1 class is accessed from
class is accessed from P1 pack from package P1. Uh now I want access from
P2. What you write? P2. AM1 class is access from package P2.
Everyone understand? Uh so tell me what we call this package name dot class
name. What do you call it as fully
fully qualified name? Okay. Uh fully qualified name
to solve ambiguous error we have to use fully qualified name. So tell me next
question. Five.
If
how can we solve
ambiguous error in accessing classes.
Now what the point by using by accessing class by using fully
qualified name.
Is it clear guys? Right. So what the fully qualified name
package named class. So this the story about import statement
related all points. Can I expect everyone understand?
Now finally sixth point what are the rules?
We must follow to access
one. We must access a class from
one package
from other packages. Answer
number one, the class and its members
must be public. Second, we must access
this class either by using
fully qualified name or by using
import statement. Third,
if the package is available in
different package sorry different folder
we must say classer. Next very important, what is the difference between
fully qualified name and import statement? Tell me what is the actual way to access
the class. Is it fully qualified name or import statement?
What is the actual way to access a class from
other package? Answer by using fully qualified. Fully
qualified name is the actual way. Then what is the difference between fully qualified name and import statement?
Answer is the actual way of accessing class is fully qualified. Name import
statement is shortcut of
fully qualified. If I use fully qualified name,
we must repeat package name
every time. When we access class
with import statement
we master we need to use
package name only once
we can directly
class name without package.
And if I repeat package name again and again again code is red or not red with a fully fully qualified name
code is not readable because of
because of repeating packaging.
with a qualifi fully qualified with a import statement with import code is readable because
we don't repeat package let me show you this example now
go to one more Java file I'm creating here say
import uh P1
E class empty main method I want access a class A m1 uh if you want repeat again
a do m1 if you want repeat again a do m and tell me three times I repeated a dot
m1 a.m I'm creating this also in the package
How many times I written class name only one time go to command prompt clear
screen java C - D dot E java
p2/3
E compile successfully and
java p3. E executed A class M1 method
executed how many times? Three times. Now I want access B. Can I write B1 M1
directly? No. M M3. Now B1 M3 directly. No. Compiler will throw error. Cannot
find symbol class B. Where B is available in P1. So what you write? P1
dot. If you write B. M3 compile time error cannot find symbol class D. So
what write P1B dot
M3. Okay. Uh if you want repeat three times. Three times I have tried P1.P1.p1.
Is it readable or not readable?
And this is read
clear screen compile. Now compile successfully
and execute. We are getting B-class M3 three times. So fully qualified name is
not readable. So when I have to use a fully qualified name, if you want to
access duplicate class P2 dot A dot M1.
Okay. I want access here fully qualified name mandate
because of name conflict.
Because of name conflict P2.A is compulsory. There is no other option. You cannot avoid. Compile and execute.
We are getting from what? P2 I have to if you want access again again again I have to use P2. Am
compile and execute two times execute. Everyone understand this concept? Uh
here next question.
Ninth question when fully qualified name is mandatory
in case of class name conflict.
If same class is available in
multiple imported packages
we must use fully qualified name to avoid
ambiguous f that's all about these nine points can Respect all the people nine
points. Understand?
Can you tell me quickly all points? Number one, what is import keyword? Why import? For accessing the classes from
other package. All classes are public classes. Uh for accessing public classes from
other package. What is it syntax? Package name dot star or package name.name. What are the different
syntaxes? What are the differences between about two syntaxes?
Between P1st star and P1.A. P1star allows us to access all public classes
available in the P1. P1.A allows to access only class A. Uh in P1 package,
class A may or may not be available. No error. In P1 package, class A must be
available. With the P1 start, class A is not compiled. In P1.A, class A is
compiled. And next P1 dot start first priority to the class given to current package in P1.A first priority given to
P1. And next P1 start no information about the classes. We cannot guess the logic developed in this Java file. P1.A.
There is information about the classes. So we can guess the logic available in this pack in the Java file. How can we
solve ambiger in accessing classes? By accessing using fully qualified name. So what are the rules we must how can we
solve by using fully qualified name? What are the rules we must follow to access a class from different package?
Class must be public and its members must be public. Next
uh next we must access class either by using fully qualified name or by using import. If the package available in
different folder we must set class. So what they actually access class from other package fully qualified. Then what
the difference between fully qualified and import statement? Import statement is shortcut. Fully qualified is full cut. Fully qualified name code is not
readable. Import statement is readable because package then we use only one type. If the naming conflict is there
fully qualified name is mandated.
These are the points about import statement.
There is a another concept called static import. What is that static input? It is a Java
5 version new feature. In Java 5 version, this feature is
given. It is Java 5 version new feature. Now, tell me what is a static import?
Already you know in static member chapter we discussed. Tell me what is a static import?
uh an import statement that has
static keyword
is called
It is a Java 5 version new feature.
Now tell me why static import. The code itself is telling import is for
importing import.mp import is used for accessing
classes public classes available in the package. Uh static import is used for
static. Static means static variable. Static method. Static in another class.
How many classes available inside a class? Static variable we can access. Static method we can access. Static
block can access. No. Static inner classes we can access. Yes. Why static
import? It is used for accessing
public static members. Public static members
from one packaged class
to another package. Now tell me if you want to access a
class from one package I have to use what fully qualified name P1. Ammon
I want to access without package name then what use import statement import P1.A then A1.m1 A1 m1 A1. Similarly, if
you want to access one static member from other classes, I have to access
directly by its name of class name class name a.m I don't want to use a a m1 a.m
a m1 a.m 100 times. If you ask me to write a.m it's not readable. I want to make it easy to read. So I want write
directly m1 without using class name. Then what concept I have used static input. It is used for accessing public
static members of public static members of a packaged
class. public static members of a packaged class from other package
classes. Other package classes without using class name. Without using class
name without using class name. Let me show you this point. Uh now I have already class A. I have already class A.
In this class already contains what? M1 method which is a public.
One minute not this A. I want to take package P1A.
Now tell me package P1 contains the class A which is public and it contains static method which is what? Public. Let
me create one more method here. Let me take one more static method.
Copy paste public static v M2 A M2. Save
it. And this is M3 method. AM. Let it be there. Okay. Uh I want to access class
A, M1, M2 methods from other packaged classes. Now let me take
class F and here I'm writing package P3 or P4 whatever I want to access class A.
What statement you write? import P1 A. Then if you want to access M1 method how
to write AM1 AM
yes or no? Uh save it with the name F. Java and now go to command prompt clear
screen Java C - D dot P3/
F java program compile successfully and executed Java P3F output is AM1 AM now
my question is I don't want to use a M1 I want to access M1 directly I want to
access M2 method directly is it possible or not possible Not possible. Compiler search for M1
method in which class F class. M2 method in which class? F class. Because there
is no reference. When there is no reference, compiler software search only up to what? F or in the super class of
the F. If it is not available both the places Java C - D compiler will throw
error. Cannot find symbol method M1. In which class? F. Cannot find symbol M_sub_2. In which class? F. Now I want
to tell to compiler array compiler you have not updated your knowledge go to go
to syntax syntax which is syntax Java 5 version I am not accessing class A I
want to access the static members available in which class P1A dot star P1
A dot star P1A dot star uh if I write import static P1A star what the meaning
of statement I am telling to compiler hello access M1 method from which class
P1A access M2 method from which class P1A save it go to command prompt look at
here program compile successfully yes executed yes are you guys understand and
tell me what the use of static import statement the import statement that has
a static keyword in its declaration statement is called what static import.
What the use of static import? It is used for accessing public static members
of a packaged class from other package classes without using class name.
Without using class name clear my point? So this is the story about import static. Now let me take one more small
program. Let's say uh now tell me what it is doing.
provides access to public sorry access to public classes.
Uh it is providing access to
class the static members of the class static members provides access to public
static members of class A of P1A class
P1A very very important now tell me if I write a A1 equal to new A1
M3 is it compiler not come back in this line. What are you accessing?
Static method of P1. Accessing
static method of P1. A allowed or not allowed? Allow here. What are you doing?
Accessing static method. Let's say
static method of P1 A. Allowed or not allowed? Hello. Now what are you doing
here? Accessing class A for creating its object.
Is it allowed or not allowed? Here what it has to search for class A.
Did you access class A in the import statement? Come on. Come on. This import statement
is a import statement. A static importer is a static import provide access to the
package. No, it provide access to only static members available in the pack in
this class. So can you create object of a class by using import statement? Not
possible. Compiler will throw error. Cannot find simple classes.
Cannot find symbol class A. Cannot find symbol class A. It leads to compile time
error. Everyone understand?
Cannot find symbol class A because
we have not imported class A. We have imported
only static members of
class A then if you want to access uh if you want to access
static members and the class both what I should write import P1. A and import
static P1. A then what do you write? M1 M1 M1 M2 we can access because of input
statement and also I can write a A1 equal to new A1
M3. Now tell me any compile time error? No compile error. Now no compile.
Everyone catch this point compulsive ask question. This is
now no compile time error and java p3.g
look at there static methods and non-static method execute. Now I got it out because already I have imported a
class a can access static members by using class name also.
Yes, we can access. Save it. Go to command prompt. Compile it. Compile successfully and execute it. executed
successfully. So what is the difference between import p1a import static p1.a
start here accessing the class here you are accessing the static members of the
class. Is it clear to everyone? And now next question in place of p1 dot star or
or can I also write like this import p1. A m1
yes or no. What the meaning of p1. A.m M1 we are accessing M1 method. Uh can I
access M2? Yes, we are accessing M2 method. Sorry it is also
Java C. Sorry it is also compile M1 M2 methods
executed. You can write either star or you can write each static member separately. Okay compatible. Now I want
to create one confusion. The confusion is I am creating static method static
while okay let me take this as separate code otherwise you may confuse the parade all in single program P3 and now
I'm removing this and here I'm writing h now inside class H I'm creating static
wide M2 method uh now tell me M2 method will give importance to
P1 imported class imported class method or current method
HM2 save it. Am I going fast? Abishek abishek.
Uh look at there. Compile successfully today. No
empty method executing hass that means when we access method
directly it refers to current class method. Hello remember
local chantigu compiler always follows local
preference. Uh tell me how can we tell to compiler access p1.a A explicitly
fully qualified name P1 A M2 use fully
qualified name of this method.
Save it. Go to clear file. Clear screen. Compile successfully. Execute. Look at
that. HM2 and AM both are coming or not?
Everyone understand that? Right. So this is the way you have to practice. Okay. Static import and import. I will share
all these programs. Uh next tell me what is the 12th point? Why
static import syntax? Tell me first uh static will come up or
import will come up. Concept is static import. But what the first will come
import static package name dot
class name dot star or what is another syntax?
import static package name dot class name dot static member
static member that may be a variable or maybe a method.
So these are two syntaxes. Okay. Next step, if
the current class has
static member with the same name,
which me which class member will be accessed? Answer
current class member. Uh 14 question.
How can we
differentiate current class and
imported class members?
when they have saved you.
Huh? Answer by using fully qualified.
This is a story about import statement related. All these are theory points and
all these programs and these theory points you have to practice. Can I expect practice?
Job also
you will also get job. What the job? Working at home with your father.
Okay, very simple. You want to work with your father then
don't strike. If you want to work with a company, want
to have luxurious life, rich life, happy life.
I will share this video also today because so many comments I have
used. Okay, I will share the video also.
Everyone today itself must practice and if you have any questions ask me tomorrow. Clear? Today only you have to
practice. Yesterday packages practiced. Thank you. That's all for today class.
See you tomorrow.

