ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
Yeah, last class we have completed packages, import statement and jar file.
Right? So hope everyone remember I have shared material and also I shared
the videos for your revision purpose. Tell me in packages you have learned programming organizing programs
organizing programs and commands. So what is the command you have learned for creating package? Java C - D folder path
and Java file. Uh what is the command you have learned in the import statement in import statement? Import package name
dotclass name star sorry package name dot class name or package name dot star.
And also we discussed import static that is import static package name.classname
dot start or import package name dotclass name uh dot static member. Next
if you want to access the packages available in another folder just import keyword is sufficient. No we should also
set class path. So how many class paths we have? I mean how many ways we can set the class path? Three ways hyphen cp
class path hyphen classy path. And also we can learn um I mean also we can set
by using set class path also we can set class path by using permanent settings. Then next once you create the classes as
a packages then if you want to share your classes to other developers you have to create jar file. There are two
jar files are there API jar file and executable jar file.
API jar file is nothing but just collection of reusable classes.
Okay. So, jAR file is API jar file and executable jar file. API jar file
contains collection of classes and uh interfaces can be reusable for other
developers. And executable jar file.
Okay. Executable JAR file. Executable JAR file means the JAR file that can be
executed by using Java command. Tell me can we execute JAR file directly by using Java command? No. Uh you can
execute only if it contain main method class. Tell me if it contain main method class
then uh can you execute the class? Just by containing main method, can you
execute the class? No. How can you execute the class? H come on. If you want to execute main
method class via jar file, what you have to do? You have to set
manifest file, you have to set the manifest file with main class attribute.
With main hyphen class attribute, you have to set main method class name in the jar file. Okay. If the main method
class is accessing the classes available in another Java file, then what should we do?
Is it automatically access the classes from other Java file? No. What we have to do? We have to set class path. Now
tell me to set the class path. Can I use system class path? No. I have to set the class path in the jar file. So how can I
set the class path in the jar file? We have to set another attribute called classy
path. Class hyphen path. And what is the syntax for setting the class path? There
we have to use separator semicolon space. Okay. So you should remember the
commands for everything then only you can uh you know clear the interview. What are the command for creating jar
file? Jar - cvf space folder path sorry
jar cvf file name and the classes you want to include. If the classes are
available in another directory what is the command hyphen capital C directory.
Okay. uh if you want to create executable jar file what I have to do jar - cvf
e if you want to include only main method class name e if you want to include main method class name and a
class path first you have to create one manifest file and you have to copy the files from that manifest file into the
jar file for that what is the option I have to use m capital m or small m small
so these are all the commands you have to remember now today Let us try to understand the next important chapter
exception handling. Okay. Tomorrow no holiday. Tomorrow
class will be at as usual same time 9:00 a.m. 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. 4 hours class will be there and we'll try to
complete exception handle. Okay. So tomorrow uh 9 to 11 I will take class 11
to 11:15 I'll give you tea break and 11:15 to 1 also we'll be there class
again. So don't miss the class tomorrow. If I miss class tomorrow, exceptional chapter is completed.
Okay. Uh now tell me
I want first instead of starting what is exception what is exception handling I
want first you understand the real time example. If you understand this real time example then
you can easily catch exception handling purpose. First point I'm telling you in exception
handling chapter we are not learning how to write a class. We are not learning how to write a method. We are not
learning how to create a variable. We are not learning how to develop logic conditions loops. No. What are you
learning as part of exception handling? Handling errors. Exception handling.
Handling exception. What is the exception? There are two types of errors are there. Number one compile time
error. Number two runtime error. We have two types of errors. Compile time errors and runtime errors. Compile time errors
are coming because of logic mistake. Then sorry uh compile errors will get because of syntax mistakes. So if you
solve the syntax mistake, if you change the code, if you change the code, then syntax mistakes are solved. Then the
program is compiled. Class files are created. Next, if runtime errors are coming at
what compilation time or runtime run. The errors coming at runtime called runtime errors. Runtime errors are
called exceptions. Exceptions are coming or runtime errors are coming because of
wrong values or wrong logic. Syntax mistakes are compile time errors. Wrong
values are wrong logic. Wrong values are wrong logic is exception runtime errors.
Okay. Now tell me you develop a program uh for executing logic with your own
values. No you develop a program to execute logic with the user given
values. Uh if user giving right values or wrong values can you always can you
always guarantee that user is passing the correct values to your application? No. User may pass right values may pass
wrong values. If you pass right values no problem. If you pass wrong values, program execution is continued or
terminated. Terminated. Uh if you terminate the program abnormally means
abnormally means what? The statements available after exception rising statement are not executed. Program
terminated abnormal. Okay. For example, you are doing mobile recharge. Okay.
Phone pay you open doing mobile recharge. Then first what happen from the phone pay? Money deducted from your
account. Then the money is adding to your mobile account. Then while mobile I
mean while mobile recharging while adding money from your account to the uh your mobile account from your bank
account to mobile account when it is adding due to some network problem or some other reason the transaction is
failed. Money is not added but money deducted from your account but money is
not added to the mobile then tell me that money is lost. If money lost will you use the phone pay
second time? Never. Why? Danger, not secured, not safe, right? Then you are
moving toward Google Pay or moving to some other app. Then tell me finally Phone Pay is losing the business or not.
Is really business losing I mean is really you are losing your money? No. If transaction is failed immediately you'll
get one message don't worry your money is added back to your account. That means here we have alternative logic to
execute when the logic execution is failed. If the given value is wrong,
developer logic is wrong or some other situation occurred. Program execution is
terminated abnormally. When execution is terminated abnormally, the previously
entered values are lost. If it is a normal number, it's okay. But it is a money deducted from the account. If it
is a money deducted from the account then I'm losing my money. Then finally as a user I'm facing the problem. So
there should be a way to handle abnormal situations. There should be a way to
handle unexpected errors coming in the program. That unexpected way handle is nothing but what? Exception handling.
What is an exception? Exception is a runtime error. Why we'll get exception?
We will get exception because of wrong logic or wrong value sending by the user. What happen when exception is
rise? Program execution is terminated abnormally. If program execution is
terminated abnormally, what is the problem? Previously entered values are loss.
Next, the exception message is printed on the console by JVM. Is it in English format or Java
format? Java format. Is the Java format error understandable to the user or not understandable? Not understandable. Let
us try to see this point. A small program first I want to understand then
I'll come back to the application. I mean real time example. Look at this code
here. I have written on small program class test zero main method main start
main end and tell me is there any exception coming in this program? No. compiled successfully
executed successfully we'll get output main start main end okay uh now I am
writing one statement here I'm writing one statement here 10 by two
uh tell me what is am I performing any logical operation here yes what is the number 10 divided by two division
operation I'm performing uh tell me any problem here no problem 10 by two result
is coming what successfully executed started executed end. Now program terminated normally
abnormally normally. Now I am placing two place zero I am writing 10 by 0. If
I write 10 by 0 what happen? Can we divide a integer number by zero?
No. Is that point known to the compiler? Don't know. Compiler don't know. Compiler know only syntax. Can I apply
this division operator on these numbers? Yes. Okay. I can apply the division operator
on the number. Syntactically correct. But values are wrong. Who knows the values? Is this value allowed or not
allowed? Who knows? JVM knows. JVM found integer number dividing by zero. Then it
will throw exception. Control one and control 2. It is throwing exception.
Look at there main star. Are you seeing many end? That means program execution
terminated normally or abnormally. Abnormally means in the middle of the execution program is terminated. The
statements placed after what the statement is called exception exception
causing statement. The statements placed after exception causing statement are
destroyed. I mean the statements placed after exception causing statement are not executed. Program execution is
terminated abnormally. uh if the program execution is terminated abnormally the
values I enter in the previous lines are loss can I use that values in the next
line execution no for example I'm entering 100 values 99 values I entered
correctly 100 value I entered wrong then tell me if I try to run second time all
99 values again I have entered ear if I do the mobile recharge 900 mobiles I'm
recharging 99 accounts money deducted 100 money deduct ing time I got a
problem then tell me all the 99 accounts deducted money is also loss or not. So to solve this problem what is the
concept we are trying to use exception handling. What the meaning of exception handling uh whenever runtime error
occurred in the program. First of all stop terminating the program abnormally
and execute alternative logic for this situation. For example now you come all
the way from your room to the classroom. Once you come here admin told that class is canled then what will you do?
Uh what you expected class is there that is the normal flow. Suddenly admin told
that in the ground at ground floor only uh class is canled today. Uh what you
will do exception occurred or not? Now the normal termination abnormal
termination abnormal termination then immediately some people will smile
today no class thank you so much right and some other people will get angry why they get angry because class canceler
not informed I know I know you got angry not because
class can if you want to cancel the class class can you must tell me morning only so
that I can I I would have continued my sleeping no uh early morning 7:00 I woke
up and get ready and all the way I walked up to the class and suddenly you are saying there is no class for us to
fellow that is called wrong mentality no exception handling when exception is
occurred immediately alternate logic what my class is canceled okay let me go
to lab and practice what happened yesterday jar command I didn't remember executable jar file command I didn't
remember import class path I didn't remember package I didn't remember okay let me go to lab it's an opportunity for
me to practice let me practice uh that is called what exception handling logic
if this failed what should I do alternative that is what exception handling so tell me how many logics you
have to write in the project two logics number one original business logic in
the business logic due to wrong values or due to wrong logic if the execution
is failed alter Alternate logic I have to provide sir already alternate logic
we have provided if else remember if given value right if given value right
execute else execute other logic uh that kind of if else logic is nothing but
what exception handling uh I don't know the value right or wrong at compilation
time I cannot put one condition I cannot write one condition if I know how to write a condition if I know how to
handle it I can use if else condition but sometimes I cannot write condition just I am just checking the user given
value right or wrong I cannot check in that situation what I should use try catch are catching my point uh if else
is nothing but what try catch in place of if else we are writing try catch who
is the if try who is the else catch what if is doing if contains what condition
that condition is nothing but exception if exception rise then go to else block.
Who is the else block here? Catch block. Go to catch block. Execute the logic available and proceed with what next
lines of the code. Okay. Now look at here. I have a program. This program is throwing exception. This exception
handling purpose we have any code written here? No. Then program terminated abnormally. So now this
chapter exception handling has a two parts. Number one exception. Number two exception handling. So first we
completed exception. Now first answer all these questions. What is an exception? An exception is a runtime
error. Uh when an exception is raised because of wrong values and wrong logic.
What is the need of exception? Exception is meant for stop terminating programmer or terminating programmer.
Exception is meant for terminating programmer. Stop terminating programmer.
Terminating program. Exception handling meant for stop terminating programs.
Exception meant for terminating the program abnormally when wrong values are passed or wrong logic is developed. What
will happen when exception is arise? Program is terminated abnormally. What are the meaning of abnormal termination?
Till the last line of the program execution is not happened. The exception causing line
the statements placed after exception causing statement are not executed. Program is terminated abnormally. Uh
what is exception message format and look at here what is the exception message format? JVM is giving
information to us about the exception. There are totally four parts are there in exception message. First one in which
thread the exception is raised. In which thread exception is raised.
Second, what is that exception? Name of the exception. Number three, reason of
the exception. Repeat again what the first one thread name in which exception is
raised. Sir, what is the thread? I don't understand. I also not understand because thread is topic is coming in the
next chapter. Multi- threading. Now, thread means what? Multi- threading. Did we complete multi-threading chapter? No. Then will
you know this? No. What you should do? Oh, in Java there is something called thread. Exumptions are coming from
thread. What are the name of the thread? Main. Oh, like main thread there are some other threads also there. Okay.
When we learn this topic in next chapter multi- threading okay
you tell me what is a thread then next you stop here exception will come in your life. Abnormal termination.
So everything you cannot understand at one time that's why it is called course. Some words are come without knowing
except remember continue. Next one is what? Exception name. Carefully look at
here. Is it a text or is it a class name? How can I say it is a class name?
How can you say? How can I say? How can I say it is a class name?
Sorry. Uh naming convention.
Uh what is the naming convention? Class name. Every word first letter is capital
letter. Right. And next is it available directly as packager. Uh how can I say
package? Uh dot dot before class name dot dot means what? Package. Here is the parent
package. Java. What is the child package? lang. So, uh, java.lang is the package.
In that package, we have a class called what? Arithmetic exception. What did you understand? Oh, exception is a runtime
error. To represent that runtime error, we have one class.
I have an object called student. To represent student, we have a class called what? Student. I have a I have an
object called employee. To represent employee, we have a class called what? Employee. I have a bank account to
represent bank account. We have a class called what? Bank. I have an exception to represent exception. I have a class
called exception. But class exception can represent all exceptions. No. A
person can represent all types of persons. No. We have a person called student. We have a person called
employee. We have a person called cook. We have a person called faculty. We have different types of persons are there. To
represent all these different type of persons. we have a separate separate classes then all these classes will you
create them as individual classes as a subtype of the person. Uh tell me in
Java programming language or any programming language as part of object- oriented programming language we will
have only one runtime error many runtime errors many runtime errors are there okay to represent each runtime error we
must have one separate class arithmetic operation failed one class
arithmetic exception array index is failed array index out of bounds exception number conversion failed
number format exception okay null pointer failed null pointer exception
like this. As many runtime errors we have in the project, those many separate classes are there. Then all these
classes must be created as a subasses of one super class. Now tell me who is a super class of all persons?
Person. Who is a super class of all animals? Animal. Who is a superclass of
all vehicles? Uh same who is a superclass of all exceptions.
Wrong answer. Throwable. What are the superass? Throwable, not
exception. So throwable is the super class of all exceptions. Why? Exception is meant for throwing. Now so a
throwable thing is called what? Exception. That's why the name is what? Throwable. Throwing is a verb. Class
name should be in verbal form or noun form. Noun form. So throwable is the noun form. So the class name is
throwable. So tell me all exceptions are the subclasses of whom? Throwable.
Throwable exceptions means all exceptions are further subdivided into two types. Animal. Who is a super class
of all animals? Animal. Then there are two types of animals are there. Wild animals and domestic animals. Again they
are divided into two categories. What is the wild animal category and domestic animal category? Similarly throwable is
divided in two types of exceptions. Error type exception. exception type exception. Okay. Out of memory error in
J in a garbage collection we learn chapter called we learn an exception called out of memory error. Stack
overflow error. Uh these are what JVM level occurring problem. JVM memory level getting problems. Those exceptions
are represented by one class called what? Error. E capital letter error. And next now program level problems
exception I mean program level problems. Arithmetic exception, array index out of bounds exception, null pointer
exception, number format exception, input mismatch exception, illegal argument exception. All these exceptions
are coming from where? Java programs. These exceptions are represented by the super class called what? Exception. So
uh we have a super class called throwable. Under we have two subasses error and exception. Under error we have
so many subasses. Under exception we have so many subasses. Tell me arithmetic exception is a subclass of
error exception. Exception. So tell me what is an exception? There are two
definitions are there for exception. In general exception is a runtime error. It
is occurred during program execution due to wrong values or wrong logic developed
in the program. Second definition except technically an exception is an object.
Everything is object in Java. Exception is an object which is an instance of
every object is a instance of one class. Now exception is a object which is an instance of throwable or one of its
subclasses. So what is an exception? Tell me again. An exception is a runtime
error. It is an object which is an instance of java.lang.throwable
or one of its subclasses. When an exception is occurred in the program, an exception occurred in the program
because of wrong values or wrong logic. What happened when exception is raised in the program? Program execution is
terminated abnormally. Means in the middle program execution terminated. The
statements placed after exception causing statement are not executed. What is the need of exception in the program?
Exception is a meant for terminating the program abnormally when wrong values are passed. If wrong values are passed and
if you execute the program we'll get correct results or wrong results are wrong results to stop generating wrong
result for terminating the program abnormally when wrong values are passed or wrong logic is developed we have
exception. So then what is the exception message format? Exception message contain four parts. Number one thread
name in which the exception is rise. Exception class name reason for the exception. The place of the exception
where it is rise. These are the four information JBM is provided. Observe once again when you see this error
message can you solve this exception by your own? Come on. Come on. Can you solve this
exception? When a compile time error is coming, it is showing the line number where the error mark uh where the error
is occurred. Then you are going to that line number and modifying the code. Uh now tell me everyone should answer how
can you solve the exception? Is exception is solved by handling exception.
Come on. Come on. How can we solve exception? Exception is solved by handling exception.
By handling exception you can stop abnormal termination. Are you catching my point? You are
giving wrong answer. I handle it corrected. Is problem solved? Who has to
solve the problem? I should solve or you should solve. You should solve. Uh next time if you ask the same question, same
wrong answer. If you give again I'm handling that error again I'm correcting. I'm asking same question
again you are giving wrong answer. By handling any user no user no use. By handling we can only stop the abnormal
termination. But can you solve the exception? No. How can we solve the exception? We have to go to this line
number. What the line number? Test 01 Java file line number 20. Go to that
line number. Why this exception is coming? Arithmetic operation divided by zero. So go to that line number.
Uh what should I do? Change the input. Change the value. Pass the correct value
two. Now exception is solved. Everyone understand? Many people are feeling that
exception can be solved by using exception handling by handling exception. You are not solving the
exception. You are only stopping abnormal termination. That's all. Everyone understand? Uh how can we solve
exception? Tell me is this exception message format understandable to the end
user? No. What is the problem? If the program is terminated abnormally,
previously given values are lost and the error message displayed by the JVM is not understandable to the user, then
what is the solution to the abnormal termination problem? Handle the exception. What you have to
do? Handle exception. But how can we how can we solve the exception? By handling
exception, can we solve exception? No. How can we solve exception? We can solve exception only by using changing the
value. By changing the value only we can solve the exception. By handling exception we cannot solve the exception.
Tell me all these 10 questions are cleared. Are ready to talk one more time? Try to answer everything. Uh first
point what is an exception? Runtime error. It is an object instance of
throwable or one of its subasses. When an exception is raised
when wrong values are passed or wrong logic is developed. What is the need of exception?
terminating the program execution abnormally when wrong values are passed for stop generating wrong value wrong
result. What will happen when exception is raised? Program execution is terminated
abnormal. What is the meaning of abnormal termination? The statements placed after exception
causing statement are not executed. What is the exception message? What is the exception message format?
What is the means? Okay. What is the exception message format? Uh
what is the meaning is not exception format and entry not enter
question. What is exception message format?
How is the exception message for what correct?
What correct?
Exception message format ention message format. Exception message format
contains four parts. Okay. Is exception message format given by JVM
understandable to the user? No. Then what is the problem? If program is stenated abnormally, previously given
values are lost and exception message also not understandable by the user. Then what the solution to this problem?
Handle exception. By handling exception, can we solve the exception?
Answer is no. Then how can we solve exception? We can solve exception only by changing the input or by changing the
logic. Can expect all these 11 questions contested? Answer notes sir questions
only I'm giving notes I'm not giving why
already notes are given yesterday already material given in the material
delivery point clearly there. Let not waste the time by typing the enter notes again and again.
not attend this fellow stop coming to the classes. Very good.
So no need to ask today. Uh online students everyone understood
any doubts in these 11 questions and in sample program if you confirm that
everyone understood I'll go to the next points offline you can also ask
every time I say online mean generally online people are having more doubts okay
I just know I don't sir what he just know.
Okay.
Uh I am removing you from the Telegram group
because this Telegram group is old. I don't want you guys be there.
Okay, this telegram is old group
already I'm facing several problems in the telegram group. I'm not entertaining the problems again.
I am not ready to face the problems. By creating group I want to help you guys
to learn the subject instead of learning subject you guys are targeting me.
Okay. I realized after corona should not think
about helping At least that you know
helping nature is also danger helping after I am such a helping person always
I am ready to lose myself but I want always other people to help. I I have learned lot of lessons from the after
corona batches and even in my society also. Please upload the notes.
Babu Satya,
did you attend yesterday class?
Then I already uploaded. No. Are you blind? No. Right.
Huh? uploaded or not uploaded
reply first and then why you're asking again upload
notes sir so I am only doing my job what is my job
teaching you everything okay and nar IT management is providing online mentors
you know right and I gave my number so if you have any doubts any problems You
can send message to my WhatsApp number or you can contact the Narish IT management. They will help you. Okay. I
stopped creating the groups because nowadays students are become so so so so
lazy and their mistakes are showing in the social media as my mistakes.
Understand that they miss the class and they will blame me. Tomorrow I'm taking
class Sunday. Sunday they have personal works they don't want to come to the class then they will create lot of
problems on on social media are taking Sunday classes if I don't take Sunday
classes we cannot complete the syllabus by end of this month it will go more two
months so I have to take Sunday classes at any cost or I have to skip the
content which one you want Sunday classes are skipping okay if you don't come to Sunday class
obviously I will skip the content or catch my point definitely skip the content. I don't have other option. So
what should I do now? Interested people come and join. Okay. Anyways, if you don't want to
come, I will skip that content. Sunday extra class I don't take. Okay. Extra knowledge I will not give you. So that
means if you don't come, happy. If you are coming, happy. It's up to you. Sunday classes are extra knowledge not
the regular classes. Clear my point? People who want extra
knowledge join Sunday class. If you don't want extra knowledge, don't come to the class. Clear? Uh so groups are
not entertaining. That's why from your batch onwards, I'm not adding the students in the group. Only sharing my
number while studying. If you got any doubt, ask me. I will help you to explain. That's it. Groups don't enter
type. Uh right. So now is this program clearly
understood? All these 11 questions understood? Okay. No understood
understood then why you moving head you just now know just now he came and
you saying yes understood turning online coming while coming you attend online bangar was here
okay now let's move to the next point what is the next topic we have to understand
exception completed next point is what? Exception handling. Okay.
What is exception handling? Tell me what is exception handling. Do you know what is man handling?
What the meaning of manh handling? Handle man is called manhandling.
Manhandling means in childhood your father did not father or mother in
childhood or a teacher. I think teachers will not do because nowadays if you if teacher is is shouting at least shouting
file a case okay actually I also have one case one
student went to the police station SR police station and bring that con table
to the classroom harolding me then police came sir did you scold the
student not scolding if I got a chance I would have murdered him I told the
Sir, why sir? You are a police. No. Why you are beating the people on the road?
Why? Why? Why you are beating on the people on the road? Tell me. Why you are punishing the people on the road? Are
you punishing everyone inside class 1100 students are there? I only shouted at the student. Why? There are so many
people on the road. Why you are only catching one person and beating? Because he did mistake. Same thing. He also did
mistake. I'm the police for the students. Thank you sir. He left
when 1100 students are there in the as by seeing the class strength he first you know started giving respect to me
sir what happened sir and he come to the classroom with a full aggression after
seeing the strength the way I am teaching the class there on the desk the the way I'm speaking there my voice
modulation by seeing him he got you know one second okay something happened in the class from the student only mistake
there he realized so I am not doing any mistake from my side.
It's all the problems are your side. Then what happened? Your parent catching
your taking your hand into his hand. Uh doing something bad backing
like anything. No, that is called what? Handling. Uh same story here. What is the exception handling? Take the
exception into your hand and then execute some logic for this exception is
called what? Exception handling. Now look at here what is an exception handling?
Exception handling is the process of handling exception.
If you say like this inter accepted no come on elaborate. Exception handling is
the process of catching an exception or reporting an
exception to the programmer. Again repeating exception handling is
the process of catching an exception or reporting the exception to method
caller. Why exception handling? Why are you catching or why are you reporting for
stop terminating the program abnormally and print the user understandable
message again everybody? for stop terminating the program abnormally and
executing alternative logic or printing user understandable message purpose we
are going develop what exception handling how can we handle exception
okay to handle exception what are the meaning of exception handling catching or reporting catching or reporting uh
how can we catch by using try catch how can you report by using throws how can I
catch By using try cache. How can you report? By using throws. By using throws. Uh repeat once again. What is an
exception handling? Exception handling is the process of catching or reporting
an exception occurred in the program. Point number two. Why exception
handling? For a terminating the program. for stop terminating the program
abnormally and executing alternative logic or printing user understandable
message purpose we should handle exception. Uh next how can we handle
exception? Two ways by using try catch. Number two by using throws. Now suppose
tell me uh I am throwing one ball on you. What will you do?
You will catch the ball. That is called handling. Okay. If you are unable to
catch then you are shouting the next person available next to you. Hello stop
that ball you are shouting now that shouting is called what? Reporting throws. Throws is nothing but reporting.
Uh now finally tell me what is an exception handling? Exception is a runtime error. What happen when
exception is run? What happen when exception is raised? Program execution is terminated.
For example, I have a glass uh what do you call glass? Okay, I have a glass
bottle. If this glass bottle if you drop from the or if you drop on the floor
then what happen? It will be broken. Abnormally terminated. Now when it is
dropping on the floor in middle you have tried to catch then is it broken or not
broken or? Not broken. That means you stop terminating abnormally. After catching what will you do? Will you keep
on looking at it? No. You are placing that bottle safe place on the table. Uh that is called what? Handling logic.
Handling logic. Exception handling logic. Okay. You are you are far away
distance from the other person is nearer. He is you know checking the mobile chatting in the mobile. Okay. One
one glass bottle falling down. Then you are away from the bottle. Can you shout
that person and ask him to catch or not? Uh that is called catching or reporting a reporting. So there are two things are
there. When an exception rises in the program, if you don't catch the exception, nothing but if you don't
handle that exception, program terminated abnormally, previously entered values are lost. When an
exception rises in the program, if you catch exception, is the program terminated or not terminated? Not
terminated. Previously entered values are loss or not loss? Not loss. Everyone understand my point? So how can we
handle exception? We can handle exception in two ways. Number one, by using try catch. Number two, by using
throws keyword. What is the syntax of try catch for catching an exception. And tell me what the use of try what is the
syntax of try catch? Same as if else. If open bracket closed bracket, else open
bracket closed bracket. Tell me if is a normal blocker or condition blocker. If
parenthesis condition if this condition is true then only execute the block and
else condition is false then execute the else like if else try catch is also
same. Try open bracket closed bracket no parenthesis no condition always control
will go into try because you won't execute your business logic compulsory enough. Next while running business
logic if there is any exception raised then only you want to execute what catch
block that means catch block code is normal block or condition block
condition block condition block means what parenthesis and the condition is what exception okay uh now tell me if
this catch block related exception ris in the try block then logic is executed
next what the meaning of catching that is also very important I I have written intal 10. What are you doing here?
A = 10. What are you doing here? Storing 10 in a. Uh now int I have written as a
parameter. M1 int a. Then down I am writing m1 of 10. What are you doing
here? Storing a passing. Passing 10 as a argument and storing in a tell me
situation change terminology change or not. Next inside the method at end of
the method I have written return 10. What are you doing? Returning 10 for
storing. There are three ways of storing. Directly store pass as a
argument and store written as a output and store or catching. Same way
exception catching is nothing but storing but that exception coming from where try
to whom catch. So that's why it is called what? Catching. Okay, catching catching is also
storing only the syntax of try catch is something like this. Observe first what you write try open bracket closed
bracket following by what you write catch. What exception you want to catch? Catch means what? Store. If you want to
store you need a variable. Variable e. What type of exception you want to
catch? What type of exception you want to store? That type of data type I have to use. Uh that is what arithmetic
exception array index out of bounds exception some other exception some other exception some other exception
everyone understand from a try block there is a chance we can get multiple exceptions also. So first we write logic
from that logic I know there is a chance I got what arithmetic exception then what you write catch of arithmetic
exception tell me this arithmetic exception is a parameter parameter
receive what argument the argument coming to the catch block by calling method from the try block try block when
by passing by ourself of an exception riser exception right when exception raised in the try block that exception
is go to catch block catch Block key E contains what? Object. Everyone understand? Next, there is a chance that
another exception may come. Then the try block can contain multiple catch blocks. Yes. Second catch block also we can
write. Computable all people up to know. Uh very very important point. What the syntax of the try block? Try open
bracket closed bracket inside what you write business logic. Uh this business logic may throw exception. So the
statements placed in the try block is called what? Exception causing and dependent statements we will write
in the try block. Next what we write in the catch block? In the catch block we don't write exception causing
statements. We will write what exception handling logic. Which exception handling
logic arithmetic exception handling logic. Uh in the second catch block what you write? Array index exception
handling logic we will write. So this is the complete syntax of the try catch block. So inside main method first we
start with what try and inside try we will write logic that causes exception.
If exception ris in the try block then that exception will go to catch. Catch block is catching means inside this e
that exception is stored. Tell me once an exception is caught by the catch
block program terminated or not terminated. not terminated logic in the catch block is executed and proceeded
with the next lines of the code available in the method. Then the program terminated normally or abnormally normally. Finally tell me
exception raised in the program catch block is not catch the exception. Who will catch exception? JVM will catch
exception. If JVM catch exception the program is terminated normally or abnormally abnormally. Abnormally means
the statements available after exception causing statement executed and not executed. Not executed. If an exception
is caught by catch block then the program terminated normally abnormally. Normally means the statements placed
after a try catch are executed or not. Yes. Now tell me now here in the try
block arithmetic exception is raised. Then the then at line number two at line number 10 otherwise at line number 10
arithmetic exception is rise. Then the statements available at 11 and 12 executed or not executed.
Come on. Line number 11 12 statements are executed or not executed? Not
executed. Exception rise remains next lines are terminated. Now how long? Until end of the try. Until end of the
try the statements execution is terminated and the exception will be given to catch. Then in the catch e
variable the exception object is stored. Then now the catch block available statements are executed. After catch
block completed after catch up arithmetic exception statements completed. The second catch block executed or not executed? Not executed.
It is like a if else if condition. It's like a switch block condition. One case is match other cases also executed. No.
Uh if whatever the catch block is match that catch block only executed. After
catch block completed where control will go? Control will go after try catch.
After try catch whatever the statements available those statements are executed. Everyone understand the try catch
execution flow. Answer two questions. Number one is a try block is the control entered into try block always yes. Are
the statements available in the try are always executed? Yes. If any exception
ris in the try block what happen? Control will go to catch block. Uh next question is catch block always executed.
Is catch block always executed? No. When catch block executed if it's a parameter
matching exception is arised. What the statement? If it's a parameter matching
exception is rised in the try block then catch block is executed. After catch block completed where control will go
control will go to after try catch and the statements available in the method are executed. All are comfortable?
Right. Now I want you develop a program. I want you develop this program. Tell me here we got exception or not for this
statement. I want you catch that exception. Stop terminating the program. Display user understandable message.
How to write the code
public. H let me copy paste.
I I know that this statement causing exception then immediately what I have to do surround there is a chance one
person is creating problem in the society. Okay. One person standing on the road and having the pistol in his
hand and then shooting the people. Then immediately what happened? Police people will round up him. Now uh now this
fellow is creating a problem. Then what should we do? We should round up by using try. Surround this statement with
try cache. Uh what exception rising that class name I have to write
uh inside this catch block the exception raised in this statement is passed to E
and stored in E. You want to use that exception in the logic? No. I want to
print my own message. I want to ignore that exception and want to print my own
message. System outprint ln don't enter.
Okay, don't divide the number by
zero. Uh tell me the flow of execution. Now step number one class is loaded.
Step number two, main method executed. Step number three, main start. Before a try, main start. Then control will go to
try. Yes, s ln 10 by0
exception rise then that exception is coming to catch e variable receive that exception object. Are you using that
exception in the program? No. Ignoring that exception and printing this message don't divide the number by zero. After
this message printed where the control will go after a try catch then main
method completed class completed. So tell me is this program terminated normally or abnormally?
Normally control one compile control 2
main start don't divide the number by zero main everyone understand how to
handle exception by using try catch confident variance now show your talent
now on the website let me take real time example as usual open amazon.in in.
I want to log to my system by clicking on sign in. I got one
screen. Is this screen background has some code or not?
Can you see that code? No, that is background a asking the user. User user enter value.
Is there any guarantee that user enter correct value? Without giving any value,
he click on continue. What happened? Tell me.
Excellent. What happened? Tell me. You have to use current chapter terminology.
Huh? What happened? Exception is raised. What end user did? He pass wrong value.
What the wrong value? Empty value. Uh, then what happened? Background exception is rised. When exception is arise then
program should be terminated abnormally. Is it terminated abnormally or not terminated? Why not terminated?
Uh background exception is handled. How? By using throws keyword try catcher try
catch. He got the exception actually what is the exception invalid pass or
empty password exception. What a empty password exception colon pass the value.
Oh blah blah blah lines that much big message if displayed here we'll use amazon next time what he did the empty
password exception is caught and printing one message from the catch block system outper
mobile number how can you leave it empty understand exceptional link Now, now I
am giving. Okay, he's asking enter email or mobile number. Something I gave.
Now click on continue. Is it email ID? Is it mobile number? Uh what Amazon will
do in Amazon code? Again exception is raised. What is that exception? Now
invalid. This is username. Invalid username. Invalid username. uh exception and
what happened? Program terminated abnormally or handled? Exception is handled. Stopped abnormal termination
and displaying error message. There was a problem. We cannot find an account with this email address. Sorry, we are
unable to find. Okay. Now I am giving correct data. Java Har Krishna. Click on
continue. Ah account is there business logic
executed. Catch block executed or try block executed. Try block perfectly executed. Exception is not raised. Catch
block is not executed. Then next result is coming. Uh now the next mean is what? Password. Entering password. ABC. ABC.
ABC. Uh is it right password? No. I also not remember what the password. Okay. Okay.
Now click on sign in. When I click on sign in, what happened? Is it right password or wrong password? Wrong
password. We got exception. Wrong password. Exception. Is that exception caught by Amazon code? Yes. From the
catch block, it is displaying a message. There is a problem. Your password is incorrect.
Uh now tell me exception handling there in the project or not? Uh tell me when you go to company if you need to write
the code for handling exception can you write? very simple write the logic in try catch block ask the user hey this
exception rise what should I do this one write that logic it's like a if else simple if else not more than that okay
hope you all understand now okay now I want you develop this program this is a
I'm I'm hard coding the values here I don't want to hardcode these values I want read these values from the keyboard
okay before that I want all people to revise all the questions once again.
Question number one, what is an exception? You have to tell two points. Exception
is a runtime error. Huh? It is an object which is an instance of throwable or one
of its subasses.
Mitali are boy or girl.
Did you attend yesterday class?
Why
then? Why did you come today?
Okay. If I share these questions, what will you do with these questions?
With these questions, what will you do? Will you search these question charges?
I don't understand.
How to prepare notes? That's what this question you search in the charge and prepare notes.
Yes sir. Take screenshot.
Take now prepare.
So you are coming to the class only for taking screenshots
like this. How much notes you will prepare?
2,000 papers.
There is a 2,000 papers of notes is there. Will you prepare notes? 2,000 papers notes.
From
the day beginning I am telling you not only to one student to all I am telling from the day beginning don't depend on
notes. If you are depending on nodes,
you never ever sustain in the software industry.
You should grasp the concept. You should get concept to your mind.
Tell me what is an exception. Runtime error.
Huh? Exception is a runtime error or object. Uh what when exception is rise
wrong values or wrong logic. Need of exception terminating the program abnormally. What
what will happen when exception is occurred? Program execution is terminated abnormal. What the meaning of
abnormal termination? The statements placed after exception causing statement are not executed. What the exception
message format? Four information will be available. Is exception message understandable to the user? No. Okay.
Let me write one more program. Up to now is user involved in your
program? No. Assume one client come to your house to your company and he is
asking you uh developer developer. I want one program you develop that
program is read values from the keyboard read values from keyboard divide those
two numbers display result. He gave you 1 cr rupee to you. How much?
Wow. He gave you 1 cr rupee to you to develop that code. Uh now tell me I want
to read values from the keyboard. How many ways we can read?
How many ways we can read values from the keyboard in Java? 10 ways we can read. How many ways we learned?
Did we learn command line arguments? Yes. Command line arguments. Buffer
reader scanner we learn. Right? Uh now I want you read values from the command
line. Read first value. Int a equal to
uh command line. I want you read value from
command line. Integer dot percent of
arcs of zero. Integer percent of arcs of zero. Uh next int b equal to integer. of
arcs of 1. Then int c equal to a by b.
Then system dot out dot print ln r double quotes result colon plus c. Now
tell me can I run this code from the edit plus directly? No because it is
asking us to pass values from command line. So we have to open command promp. Open command prompt.
Uh Java C 03
dot dot Java
error coming variable is already defined in method where you define
already there. Uh now save it. Clear screen.
Java C test zero read dot Java compile
successfully. Uh now this program is reading values from the command line. So
I'm giving the value 10 and two. What is 10?
Huh? What is the 10? 10 10
arcs of zero. What is two?
Is it 10 coming as 10 or double quotes 10? Arcs of zero coming as double quotes
10 converted to 10 and stored in a. Uh
double quotes two converted to two and storing in B. and then 10 by 2i
stored in C result is five understand
now the question you tested the application working fine and gave this
application to the user then user is running this code who is your user US
citizen he's from US when US people are working what are you doing sleeping now
Now you're in a deep sleeping at midnight 2:00. Okay. Now Java is running
this code. Test 03. Enter. What happened?
Who are you? User. As a user you read
this much big message can understand to the user. Can he read it at least? No. What will
you do? Uh he will call to the developer. Who is
your developer? I only now the Yoda called to Har
Krishna. Hello Har Krishna. What?
I got one problem in the program. What is the problem?
Uh there is a big message man. Let me read exception
in thread colon quotes quotes
main quotes java dot lang dot
array index. Okay. Is it array index out of
bounds exception? Ah yeah yeah yeah. You must give the values when run the
program. I already told you no. Yes. Yes. I forgot. Thank you. Okay. Now
give two values. 10 five. Okay. Thank you. Hurry. It's working. Okay. Don't
disturb me. So sir, sorry. Sorry. Then now happily sleeping again. Uh he's
doing a lot of testing, testing, testing. He entered A here. Knowingly or
unknowingly he entered a here. Then now what happened?
Previously two lines but now four lines
then the develop then the user again call to hurry now he is in more deep
sleep at 3 p.m. Okay. Yes. What? One more exception come.
Okay. What is that exception in a thread domain? Java.lang dot number.
Okay. Number format exception. Uh yes. Don't give any characters there. Give
only number. Okay. Thank you. Then again continue
sleeping. Now he changes to value two and continue. Then again time going on
going on. In another test case he found zero. Uh what happened now?
And one more exception come. Again user don't understand. Again he called. Now it's a morning 5:00 more deep sleeping
time. Okay. Again called this time got more angry. What? Sorry my sorry sorry I
got one more problem. This time user will start reading from exception. No I
am responding after java. No then he will directly come here say hey there is something called aridatic
ar don't give second number of zero man. Ah yeah you already told sorry I forgot
now the client will ask one wonderful statement Mr. Hurry whatever you are telling over
phone why don't you tell from the program why are you printing that ununderstandable
message why don't you print in English like how you are telling in the telling via
mobile okay I will change and give you tomorrow
now tell me what should we do what is missing here
uh here what is missing Exception handling is missing.
Now what is the way we have to run this program? I'm running with the values. No
problem. Running with this command problem. This command problem. This command problem. This command problem.
Uh now tell me
what is the problem with above code? The error messages displaying by JVM
are not understandable to user. The developer must guide the user for
solving those exception. It means this program is not talking to the user. This
program is not talkative means not user friendly. Then what is the solution? Add
exception handling code to add exception handling code. Try and catch. Everyone
understand? So tell me help me how to write exception handling code.
Uh I have to surround this line, this line, this line, these three lines with
what? Try is this line should be placed inside try not required. Is this
exception causing statement? Selector line exception causing
statement. Yes. Second, third, fourth.
Is the fourth line throwing any exception? No. But can it execute without running first the three lines? That means it is
exception causing a exception dependent. Uh it is a exception dependent
statement. So we have to place all these four statements inside where try
following by how many catches? Three catches. Why three? First one is
what? array index. Second one, number format. Third one, arithmetic exception.
Look at this.
Class test main method try int equal to integer dot integer dot integer dot. I
place all these four statements in the try. Then array index out of bounds exception from ars of0 arcs of one. We
got array index out of bounds exception and I call that exception here. What the message I'm writing? Please enter two
integers as Java test 03 102. When exception is raised, what message
printed? This is a message. Next parsing method throwing number format exception.
Then catch block is catching and printing this message. Right? And next division operate throwing arithmetic
exception catching by third catch and printing this message. Whatever I told you over the phone, those messages only
I have printed here. Now let me run this program. Java test 0 4 compile
10 five any exception and no exception. Catch blocks executed a
result not giving any value. Then array index order bounds exception rise
control go to first catch block error message displayed I'm giving only one value
again error index order once exception is raised for arc of one control go to the catch block error message is
displayed then tester a a or b whatever then number format exception please
enter only integer then now I'm giving zero don't enter zero a second value.
Tell me are these messages user understandable or not? Uh tell me if I
write the code with exception handling to handle the errors committed by the user will user call to me and disturb my
sleep time. So tell me it's very very important in every program you have to include try
catch. So tell me try catch is part of declaration part of logica.
For what purpose? writing log handling the mistakes coming from logica.
So whenever you are developing logic you should know whether exception coming or not. If exception is coming you should u
uh you should surround that logic with what try catch. And then finally tell me
execution flow no exception error message in a user understandable way. Error message user understandable way.
Error message user understandable way. Error message user understandable way. By seeing above messages, user can solve
exception by himself without taking developer help. A program with a try catch can talk to the user effectively.
We can say exception handling gives life to the Java program
to talk to the end user to correct his mistakes without taking
developer help. Now this program becomes what?
with the exception handling code a program becomes user friendly.
Can I hope everyone understood the story? Uh I want all the people practice
everything thoroughly. Sir where I can practice how can I practice? Yesterday I
told you something like this. What is that? visit https col/
bit.ly/hk no.
Uh then
open Java by
Har Krishna.
Open volume 1A textbook
page number 130.
Okay.
129. Wow.
Very fast. P is number 129. Exception handling.
Entry questions. Notes.
Definition of exception. Example. Reading.
Technical definition of exception. What happen if exception arrives? What JVM does when a logical mistake occurred in
the program? A program without exception. A program with exception. Then what is an exception? Three
definitions. Next introduction to throwable class throwable error exception. Don't read
it. Just see and leave it.
Okay. And don't read this line. You cannot understand.
Sati what are you doing?
Definition of check exception don't read. Okay. Keywords used in this except in this chapter try catch finally throw.
Huh?
index you are sharing. Why you wanted to help lazy people?
That's good. You have written page numbers correctly. Why you want to help lazy people?
Can't they do this one by themselves? That's why society is becoming worse day
by day by day
because you did. This is not humanity. You are spoiling their life.
This is not humanity. You are really spoiling their life. where you deleted already downloaded.
If you share it, what they will do? They are expecting some other person to prepare one more material
and they'll expect someone attend the interview behalf of them. That's how proxies are there
and in the company lifelong somebody do this their job.
They don't do their job. Somebody always they're looking around somebody to do their job.
What to help, what not to help. We should have common sense. Your help should not make the people
lazy. Remember that.
Uh look at here guys. So keywords used in this try catch finally throw throws.
First let us understand try cash catch finally keywords. Yesterday I mean morning I was uh
watching one small shot. First I got angry then I realized there
is a grandma in the house. The family is very poor. Grandma there grandma is getting every month pingshen you know
right? Pingshin is coming 3,000 or 4,000 pingsh is coming. Then grandma is
telling I don't give my pinchion money. Don't ask. So the family wife, husband
and childrens are working very hard earning the money and else you know giving the food going on. But the family
is expecting this grandma pinchion also to use but she's very stubborn. She's
telling don't ask my pinchion I don't give. And the parents are getting very
angry that mother-in-law daughter-in-law now right son and
daughter-in-law both are getting angry on the mother. Mother strictly saying that I don't give my pinion
days are going on 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,000 that money accumulated accumulated lot of money is accumulated saved then
grandson come to the education level he completed
uh BSE or BCOM something now he has to go to city they are living in a village he has to go to city for he wanted to
study some exam some BCOM exam or something you wanted study there
that child don't have sufficient money to go to the CT to study like how Java he wanted to study something I exam
something huh UBSC exam or whatever okay uh that
grandmother is giving that entire money to that kid
tell me when I first watching I got angry on grandmother are family is struggling Why is she not ready to give?
Later when she giving that entire money to grandson, I got tears.
That's how our grandparents are. They are very stubborn. They don't allow you
to do mistakes. Okay? And if you are when you are
helping that should not create problems to the people. If the grandmother has helped
that that pinchion to her to that family they will stop working
anyway mother grandmother money coming now they can survive with the 3,000 because he didn't give slowly they
finding the ways to get the money so that's why always I am telling you are helping good but your help should not
make the people to lazy I used to see on the roads there is a
strong woman strong gent is begging And these idiots are donating the money
to that people uh full you know they have all the parts are working nicely then why you are
giving single rupee you are giving also you are doing crime
you must donate the money or help to the old age people that not money only food
you donate the food that will be useful or give the money uh you know
carefully you have to give money to use by that that old people only. So think it
when you are helping is it useful or problem think okay and now look at there
first let us try catch same program I have given same exception messages and then design issue and now exception
handling what is exception handling why exception handling try catch block explanation
try catch syntax following by below program with try catch and then run
below test cases and above messages is user understandable
everyone understand now I want to ask next question so up to
page number what is the page number 140 129 to 140 everything is available
here not question programs everything is available now I have a question a try
block can have multiple catch blocks a try block can have mult multiple catch
blocks then these catch blocks should write in a particular order or can I
write any order. Is there any rule that I have to place these catch blocks any
order? No, I can place in any order.
Okay, I can place in any order. No problem.
Go to command prompt. Clear screen. Java C test 05
Java no compile time error reach of the file while parsing bracket is missing
bracket bracket mark
compile and execute. Look at there
05 not there
compiler. Next please enter two inteious uh array
index out of bounds exception rise here. First verifying is that exception
matched to this catch block? No. Then go to next catch block match. Yes. Then
logic execute. Everyone understand I can place catch blocks in any order. No
problem. But there is a problem. The problem is
tell me can I write a single catch block to catch all exceptions?
Can I write a single catch block to catch all exceptions? Yes. Tell me what
type of variable can store all objects. Super class type. Super class type. Who
is the super class of all exceptions? Throwable. What is the next subclass?
Exception. I'm writing exception E. Exception E. I'm writing one message
here. Exception raised. Save it.
Clear screen. Compile it.
Execute. Look at there. exception rise I'm giving 10 a exception r 10 zero
exception so if you place your catch of exception it can catch all exceptions
coming from this try block understood now I wanted to write along with this
catch block I want to write other catches also arithmetic
arithmetic exception a here I'm writing a e is raised
A is raised exception is raised something. Uh now tell me if array index
out of bounds exception is raised. Which catch block catching that exception?
Exception catch block. Number format exception is raised. Which catch block catching that exception? Exception catch
block. Arithmetic exception is rise. Catching by this catch block. Clear
screen. Now look at there. Sorry. First I have to compile it. Compile.
And then look at there. Array index exception catch block. Number format exception exception catch block.
Arithmetic exception. Arthmatic exception catch block. Now I am placing
this catch block after this catch block. Any problem or no problem?
Problem or no problem? Problem. What the problem?
Arithmetic exception is raised here. Is that exception
going to this catch? No, it is checking for the matching top
to bottom. Exception rising with what? First catch. Match now.
Matched. Matched means what? Same type of super type. Arithmetic exception. Super type is what? Exception. Can it
catch by this exception? Yes. Tell me does this catch block has a chance to execute at least once. Never. This catch
block become unreachable or not. Then compiler will ask you why are you writing?
Compiler throws error. Exception arithmetic exception has already been
caught. Already been caught. Why are you writing? So tell me if I want to write multiple catch blocks what is the rule?
Advanc joined or not joined?
5:00 we batch we lost already.
Okay. Any of you have not joined you must join. Okay. If later complain to the
management saying that my course is delayed not completed in time that is your problem not our problem. according
to the courses according to the duration we are starting the courses core java var htpml must already completed
completed cj java not completed completed
by 5th only completed then these are the extra classes I'm taking for your benefit if anybody ask java you what you
should say completed understand now after three courses completed now
evening 4:30 we started advanc java in advanced java now you Faculty will ask
the question core Java var HTML prerequisite do you have don't you have
you have already completed you should say yes we have you have to join that course if you don't join advanc Java
tomorrow I'll check ID cards everyone should join advanced Java okay
Right.
Who is saying Manish? Manish Gupta who is saying
multi-threading topic networking for advancer when they're saying prerequisite close
your eyes and close your ears. The moment if the faculty type
prerequisite immediately
okayh follow Gandhi rule
follow HK rule what is HK rule if I say join you have to join is that
in advanced Java are you developing multi-threading code No. Are you developing networking code? No. Just
they are saying that is required. This is required. Advanced Java time waste.
Understand my point. Prerequisites is double time waste.
Don't practice advance. Just attend advance. Then what should I practice? Poor Java.
Poor Java. Var you have to practice more. Advanced Java practice also wasted
as spending time for advanc Java is 100% wasted but you should have awareness.
What is the awareness? Terminology JDBC I know connection I know prepare
statement I know statement I know. Tell me what is statement I don't know.
Okay. So awareness purpose only you are joining advanced Java. Okay. So join
advance ever as much what s is telling just listen if some words are bouncing
let them go catching my point don't catch let them
go if some point is bouncing from your brain don't try to catch don't add
exceptional ling there let them go and then when I can catch don't catch I'm telling let them go just sincerely
attend the classes whatever the notes and diagrams are is teaching just collect it and have in your notebook
have in your Google classroom and then what should I practice sir? Core Java
Oracle Spring Boot Core Java Oracle Spring Boot you have to
practice sincerely. Advanced Java is just a open door for the spring. It is
just a bridge from core Java to spring boot to go. The bridge concept is what?
Advance. Tell me when you are crossing the bridge are you studying the bridge? No. This road is not need to know and
that other side road is you have to know bridge is just for crossing purpose. So everyone attend advance and leave it.
Now the question is what can I write multiple catch blocks as you like? No,
you should not duplicate catch blocks. That means can I write what after advance? Fellow first you complete
advance overinking always kill your life.
Arithmetic exception catch up arithmetic exception. Catch up arithmetic exception. Duplicate catch blocks
should not write. Okay. Huh? And parent class catch block should not place
before child class catch block. If you write that compiler throw error.
That's it. Uh these points you have to remember.
Darian you didn't attend demo class
open first day day one nodes and refer I already told road map of the fullstack
Java to complete look at down next page there's a rules in using try catch and
the next page you have multiple catch blocks and the program on multi catch
blocks rules and the program up to page number
143 up to page number 143 totally five programs are there six programs totally
all six programs today you have to practice come tomorrow at 900 a.m.
tomorrow 9:00 a.m. you have class as usual no holiday class timing is 9:00
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. middle I'll give you chai break. Thank you. That's all for today class.
There is no Google classroom Bangladesh.
Vive sorry Vive there is no Google classroom. Now onwards I'm not posting
anything in the Google classroom. Everything is available in the HK notes Google drive. Go and collect the
material from them.
Everything there complete material available in HK nodes.

