ript


Right.
Good morning everyone. Last class we have completed finally block discussion.
Everyone found the discussion we made on finally block yesterday notes.
Uh any questions on any case? All cases practice sir.
Okay. So if you have any questions you can ask.
So what is the important point? Finally block contains return statement. If
finally block contains written statement number one we cannot place any statements after
any we cannot place any statement after finally block. Second the value return
from drive or from the catch always return from I mean always replaced with
finally returning value. If any exception rise that exception is suppressed and final return value will
be returned. Okay. Then now the next question next topic we need to understand
compiler thinking algorithms compiler thinking with respect to uh try
catch final look at here I'm writing try is a try a normal statement or it is a
block try is a lock
a block means it is creating a scope. Now try is a block. It's creating scope.
spoke means if I create variable here int a= 10 can I access that a variable
within the same sty block or not? Yes. Next arithmetic exception e can I access
the variable created inside try inside catch and after try catch possible or
not possible? Not possible. Compiler will throw error.
cannot find symbol variable a line number nine and line number 11. So what
the case number one the local variable created inside try or in catch or in
finally is local to that block only. We cannot access from other blocks.
Compiler will throw error. This is case number one. Now these are errors I am
commenting. Okay. Tell me case number two. If you
wanted to access the variable a in a try in catch and in finally where I should
create that block. Okay finally I'm not taking for the time being. Uh now where I have to create
this variable A. I want access in try in catch infinal. I don't want to get any
error. Then should I create inside try or before try? Before try I have to increase the scope outside of the try I
have to create. Okay. What am I doing? I am creating variable outside but
initializing inside the try. Then any compile time error or no compile time
error. Now why you are feeling no compile time error?
variable a having scope for all the try catch and after try catch then second
point I have created a variable here with value or without value is a local
variable doesn't have value without value then where you initialize that
variable inside try the value initialized inside try is available to
catch is available after try catch if it is a regular method available. The
value assigned inside one method to class level variable available to another methods because the value
assigned inside method will be stored at class level variable can be accessible. Similarly, the value assigned inside try
is stored in this variable then that value must be available to catch.
But when when here try catch is normal blocks exception handling blocks
then compiler thinking that you return a equal to 10 inside try block then what
is the chance that this line is executed. There is a chance may exception come
here. If exception is occurred here then value variable a is initialized or not
initialized. not initial and tell me now a = 10 sir there is no exception now sir
that means you are thinking like a JVM you are working with actual value then
you are a JVM but compiler software know actual value that exception rising not
rising no compiler never work with actual flow compiler always work with
assumptions for example there is a board lion j I
mean tiger jone there is a for called tiger jone. Then by seeing the tiger jone you entered inside and you are
coming outside and shouting at the people saying that tiger is not attacked me. You are lucky fellow.
You are lucky person the tiger not maybe it is not feeling hungry that's why not not hunt you. Uh now tell me tiger jone
means what 100% tiger will attack may attack may attack. Then when you are
going inside the tiger jone you are having full production and going now same way whenever a compiler has seen
this try block compiler field exception rising jone then every statement uh tell
me now you are walking on the in that forest area tiger jone then small plant
is moved also because of air then you'll get feared and looked like tiger coming
after seeing the only because of air no tiger is there then you'll feel happy like what are you doing you are actually
with the tiger you are working assumption you're working assumption similarly whenever compiler see your try
block then what compiler feeling oh there is a chance exception may come then every line you have written inside
try block are considered as exception causing statement it is also exception
causing it is also exception causing statement so there is no exception then don't write write outside.
If you say no exception coming then why you are writing in the try block and the contract between compiler and JVM you
are failing or not. What the contract between you and compiler you want to tell to compiler these two lines may
throw exception then write inside try block. You want to tell to compiler exception will not throw right outside
of the try block. The statements placed inside try block are always considered as what? Exception causing statements.
At runtime they're causing or not causing doesn't matter. But for compiler it is a exception causing statement.
First explanation understand. Second point. Then when you write a equal to 10 here compiler feels that uh here
exception may rise. If exception rise what is the exception rise? You are telling to compiler arithmetic
exception. Then control will go into arithmetic exception catch block reading s a what is the a value
come on what is the a value 10
what the a value a value 10 you are what are you doing at this line
number you are reading a when you're reading a you have to look for a a declaration and a assignment tell me now
you are searching for What a declaration is a declaration available in the try? No. Will you check in the try block? No.
Where you'll see I mean method outside of try outside of try int is available.
But is it have initialization or no initialization? Uh done initialization in the try. But is this initialization
100% guarantee assigned or not assigned as why you come to the catch? Because
this line throwing exception that means a equal to 10 stored or not stored not stored because a equal to 10 not stored
because exception ris come to catch block s what is a value no value there
is no value now next after try catch any value there no value then compiler throws error
what the compile name error cannot find symbol variable a in test Hey.
Oh, here
look at the compile number. What is coming? Variable A might not have been initialized. Line number 21. Line number
20. What compiler feeling? At this line number, I may get exception. That
exception is the arithmetic exception. Arithmetic exception when write this line is doesn't have value. So throwing
error. What did you understand in this case number two? If we declare variable
before try initialized in the try the initialized value the try initialized
value we cannot read in catch and after try catch it leads to compile time error. Why? Because compiler assuming
that at the line number a equal to 10 maybe exception is raised. Then what is
the solution to this problem? Now both are compile time errors. I'm
commenting. If you comment this, you will get error
here. Let me show you.
Look at the line number 23. Variable might not have been initialized. Uh now what should I do now? I have to
uh tell me here I'm taking variable B int B = 10. B variable I'm accessing
here I'm writing B equal to 20 now any error no error
comes error no error why no error
why no error int B variable be created inside block B equal to 10 what the B
equal to 10 exception may arise then control go to catch block in catch block B equal to
20. Uh then what the B value? 20. What the B value? 20. Suppose exception not
rising here. Then what the B value? 10. Catch block executed. No. After try
catch B value 10. So tell me in both the cases either exception not rise or
exception rise. Are you getting B value or not? Yes. So compiler software is
placing a assumption here. How many assumptions compiler software placing?
Three assumptions. 1 2 3. First assumption no exception. Then what is
the a value? 10. Arithmetic exception is rise. What is the a value? No value.
Then compiler throwing error. Some other unknown exception is rise. Unknown
exception. Unknown exception at a quarter not. when it is not called abnormal termination so no need to think
about so totally how many cases are there three cases if you don't consider these three cases you will give wrong
answers in the example exam be careful and now I want write one more case here
now tell me here in this case apply three assumptions a value no exception rise then what is the output 10 uh
arithmetic exception is rise what the a value 20 unknown exception is rise what
is the A what is the B value? Abnormal termination. No exception.
Unknown exception rise here. Some array index out of bounds exception rise. Then catch block. No. Next statement
executed. No terminated here. So no problem of reading B well. Now I want to
give you one more case here. Please think and tell. So what is the point here? You understand? If you want to
declare variable before try initialize inside try want to read in
the catch after try catch what I have to do I must initialize B variable in try
also in catch okay let me give you one more case I'm taking finally now I'm
taking finally now system outp now let me take
C. Now you tell me are there any compile
time error in this program? I already explained what you have to do.
Work like a compiler or work like a human. Work like a compiler. Apply compiler
algorithm. Find out is there any compile time error. What the in which case you will get
compile time error. How many cases you ought to apply? Three cases. Case number one, no exception rise. No exception
rise. Then what is the C value? 10. Is control going to catch block? No. Yes
sir. No. No exception rise. When no exception ru
catch block not executed. What about finally? Finally executed. Yes. Finally
executed. What is the C value? 10. And then after after finally 10. Next case
number two. Exception rise here. Arithmetic exception rise here. Then what the C
value? 20. C value 20. Is control go to finally? Yes. What the C value? 20.
After try catch finally. Yes. No problem. Now
no problem. No problem. No problem. What the problem?
Unknown exception is raised. Case number three is what? Unknown exception is
raised. If unknown exception is raised here arithmetic exception no array index
out of on exception is raised then catch block matched no uh abnormal
termination should be happened then control will go to
JDH control will go to JDH from JDH is coming to finally what the C value
no value then compiler throw error Look,
variable C might not have been initialized. Line number 46. In which case you are getting this compile time
error in the case of unknown exception. For unknown exception, we got finally
block compile time error. No, no compile time error. Then how to solve this problem? Okay, let me write same program
one more time. This time I'm taking variable name as D. D
= 30. Any error? No error.
Semicolon. Okay.
No error or no error. Apply all cases. All three cases and tell me.
Case one already found no error. No. Case two also no error. Case three uh
what is the D value? 30. Now my question at line number 63
what is the output in case one? Case two. Case three also case three
will not execute. Uh now tell me in a case one what is
your expected output? If no exception is raised what is the output? 10. But what
is coming? 30. In a case two, if arithmetic exception is raised, what is
our output? 20. But what is coming
for solving compile timer? If you write d= 30 here, finally the original result
is gone.
Okay. So somebody is trying to tell something with this new topic. The existing thought process is gone.
Okay. Uh the existing intelligence is gone. That is called the submitter. Uh now tell me I want to solve the third
case compile time error. I have written d equal to 30. Then finally what happened? Try catch values are always
replacing with 30 and after try catch finally we are not getting my original expected values. So this is right
designer wrong designer. Wrong design. Why always
here we get 30? Now what the solution to this
problem as why you are getting all this nonsense compile time errors.
My intention is what? My intention is I want to declare variable before try.
Want to initialize that variable in a try and I want to use that value where in
the catch either with a different value or with the same value. No problem.
After try catch finally. After try catch finally. Infinally after try catch
finally I want to use the value assigned in the try or in the catch.
Understand my intention. After try catch either infinally after finally I want to
use the value assigned either in the try or in the catch. But are you getting
that values? Compile time error. Compile time error. Then what is the solution? First you think about why am I getting
this error? Because there is no value at the E variable. Here I'm writing E equal
to Z. I myself assigning some default value
with this code. Do you have any compile time error? Uh now tell me when E is
created what is the value available? Zero. No exception is raised in the try
block that zero replace with 10 in try e value 10 after try catch finally e value
10 uh sorry infinally e value 10 after try catch finally e value 10 so tell me
any compile time error no compile time error
variable e already existed you
Look at there. What is the last value coming? 10 10 10 last three values. Don't worry about these one. Previous
cases values deserve 10 10. Uh next I am rising exception arithmetic
exception 10 by 0. If arithmetic exception is rise control will go to where catch block first e value what
zero and then 20 zero replace with 20 uh in catch 20
in finally 20 after try catch finally also 20
last three messages 20 20 now I am raising some other exception
All three cases I'm writing here for your understanding
equal to integer do par c in
double quotes here and then what happen here number format exception is raised
what the first one e value what zero here number format exception is raised then control will go to catch log where
it will go jd from JDH control is coming to final in finally what the E value
zero any any compile error no all three cases program get satisfied
and we'll get output zero and exception zero exception hope you all understand
now when you are dealing with when you are dealing with try catch finally with
a variable declaration initialization case number one if you declare variable
inside try trying to access in catch or in finally after try catch finally
compiler will throw error. This is case number one.
Uh case number two, if you want to access the variable in a try catch and
finally after try catch finally declare that variable before try initialize in
try access in catch or after try catch you will get compile time error because
compiler put assumptions here exception may rise may not rise not rise no
problem. If rise value is coming, no value is coming. So compiler throw a
error. And then what the solution to this problem? Solution to this problem is we must initialize that variable in
catch in try also in the catch. If I initialize in try in catch no problem.
But if you have finally block also then problem will come. If you have finally
block in finally block the value will not come because finally block is
executed when uncaugh exception is rised. Then what is the solution? Initialize in finally also if you
initialize in finally in case one case two we don't get try catch values. We always get finally block. Then finally
what is the project correct design? The correct design is
The correct design is initialize a variable with a default value in the
declaration. Initializing the try with a try value. Initializing the catch with a
catch value. So that now we the compile time error is solved. In all the three cases we will get value and in the no
exception case we will get try value. In arithmetic exception case we will get catch value. In unknown exception case
we will get defaulted. So this is the design we have to follow while working in the project. Tell me in the project
we are dealing with local variables also. Now uh so this is the most most most important point. If you don't
remember this last case, this last case advanced Java, you are going to fail to
understand. In advanced Java like int variable you will create connection variable, statement variable, prepared
statement variable, result set variable and those variables we will initialize inside right and in the finally block we
are closing that object. For closing that object we have to call class I mean method level variables inside finally
without initialization. If you access in the final we will get compile time error. So this is the very important
topic for advanced Java. Please remember in advance Java when faculty is trying to use a try catch finally and calling
close method this case you must recolct. Okay.
Okay. Now next question I'm asking. Observe this is main method close.
Case number three. Case number three. I am creating one
method whose return type is int method m1 I have written.
Uh tell me is there any compile time error? In this m1 method creation is there any
compile time error? No.
No problem. Any comp?
Yes or no? No. Why? If method has a return type, you must
return value. Now, what the compile time will get? Missing return statement. Missing return
statement. Uh now tell me missing return statement I have to write. So I'm
writing return semicolon. Compile not compile. Compile not compile. Not compile. Why? Uh now the compile number
is missing return value is saying return value. Okay. Uh next. Now I am going to
return value. Now file any compile error. No everyone understand.
But current chapter is what? Mother chapter exception handling chapter m
what you have to write. Try catch right try try.
I am thinking that while returning this value I may get exception. I want to
catch exception. Catch off.
Huh? Tell me is program compiled.
Catch it. Cash can be empty. No problem.
Is it compiled or not compiled? What is the point you have to consider
here? Method has a return type in. So we must return the value. Huh? Returning.
How many cases you have to put put here? Three. When you write any statement in the try, you have to apply three cases.
Case number one, no exception ris. If no exception rise, what value returning? Five. Satisfied. If arithmetic exception
is raised, is this line executed? Control will go to in catch block. Are
you returning any value after a try catch? Are you returning any value? No. Then you will get compile
time error. Missing return statement.
Missing return statement. I have written return five here. Written
five you have written but it is not executing always. So it's a right approach or wrong
approach? Wrong approach. Wrong design. Okay. Uh now case three failed.
So what the solution to this problem? First you comment it
because compile time error you have to comment everything. Uh next I am creating this try catch.
Okay I'm taking another wait one minute.
I'm taking method M2 and tell me how to solve this problem. I want to use a try
catch. Uh sorry case three or case two. Case two
failed. Now what is the solution? I have to place return five in the catch also
or return seven. Tell me now compiler. Not compiler. not compile.
Come on. Case one, no exception rise. Huh? Five written. Case two, arithmetic
exception r seven return.
Uh if unknown exception is rise, exception only returning. Now
something should go out of this method either success value or failure. Success
case. Success means what? No exception rise. Exception ris in a normal
termination when control reach end of the method is value returning or not.
Case number one no exception rise what value return five. Case number two exception ris normal termination. What
value returning? Seven. Abnormal termination. In abnormal termination is the return type consider directly
exception only going. Exception is the result. So once method completed either
control should come back to the calling method normally with value or with
exception. Understand my point. Normally going with value and here if abnormal
termination exception is going so no problem compile successfully.
Uh tell me in a normal case what value return five. In abnormal ter I mean in arithmetic exception case seven. in
abnormal termination exception will return. Now I am introducing next point
here. Finally
uh tell me I have written finally. Now program compiler not come. Uh case
number one. Uh case number one
five written. Case number two seven written. Case number three.
Case number three, finally executed. After final execution.
After finally execution, what happened? The exception itself is going now. Then no problem. Compile successfully.
Other pointer from the method what should I return?
Either value or exception. Either value or exception I should return. Okay. Tell
me now. No exception raised. What is the flow? Return file. Five directly return
JDH because finally should execute. Now control go to JDH. Finally executed.
Come back to JDH. In JDH we have value five that five is written.
Case number two arithmetic exception is raised then arithmetic exception catch
by catch block and return seven. Before return seven finally should be executed.
So control will go to JDH. Place the seven there. Coming to finally from the
finally going to JDH. In JDH you have value. Now what the value seven taking
on going to method? Understand? Case number three. Say suppose number
format exception is raised. Uh number format exception rise. Program terminated abnormally should go to main
method. Before that it has to execute what? Finally. Then arithmetic exception stored in JDH. Go to finally. Finally is
executed. Coming back to JDH. From JDH it is going to main method with exception. So no problem. Okay. Uh in
the variable case we have problem because you are reading that variable.
Are catching my point? In variable case we got problem because you are reading that variable for reading the variable
value. V value is not there. But in this case you are returning value either from try. You are returning value either from
try a or from catch or exception. Any of the three has to go out. We are not working with variable here. Don't
compare variable case with return case. But there is a problem here. The problem
is let me create and show you.
Here the problem is M4 after try catch finally.
After try catch finally I am writing one statement double quotes. Is this line
compile or not compile? uh if you place return statement in both
try and catch the problem is after try catch finally inside the method we
cannot place statements. Everyone understand or repeat once again. What is the problem if we place
return statement in the try block? It is not considered as returning
because when unknown exception is I mean when a exception is arised on cord the
value is not returning. So if you place return statement the catch also then error is not there. But
the problem is after try catch finally we cannot place any statements at least
to compile time error. What is the compile time error? Unreachable statement.
So now the interviewer will ask a question. I want to play I want to return value I want to return value five
in a normal flow. I want to return seven in exception flow. After try catch
finally also I want to have the logic. How can you write the code?
Is the question understood? Again repeating what is the question? Enter will ask the question. I want to return
five in the normal flow. I want to return seven in the arithmetic exception when arithmetic exception is right and
also I want to have statements after try catch finally in this case what should we do very simple don't return before
logic don't return before logic
cannot find s what the compile error unreachable statement what the solution to this problem very simple solution why
are you getting compile error unreachable statement because before running this logic you are return the
control don't return and that means what you remove return keyword here you
remove written keyword here and place return keyword here
at end of the method you place return statement if you place end of the return statement this line is reachable or not
but how this return keyword can return the five from the tray how the return keyword can return seven
from The catch. Understand my statement? What is your requirement? If no exception rise,
return five. If arithmetic exception rise, return seven. If array index out of bounds exception is raised, return
eight. But after try catch, finally I should also have some statements. Then what the solution to this problem?
Simple solution. Don't return value in the try catch. Return the value at end of the method. But how to get the value
of try catch to the end of the method? Simple. Use variables concept. Use variable concept before method. Write in
result with some default value zero. Then write here result equal to five.
Write here result equal to 7. End of the method. Write result. Problem solved or
not? Right? Uh these are the techniques you have to follow. Just learning concept and then by hearting that
concept and then producing in the interview. you cannot survive in the company. So in the company you should
remember all these techniques. These techniques you can get how by daily practicing by asking question what is
the error? What is the other way right? What is the other way right? You have to do several experiments on the concept
then only you can be strong in the experiment in the company. The best code you have to write in the company. The
good design code you have to write in the company. For that daily practice many examples and reading the books is
very very important. Several books you have to read you know uh several articles you have to read on Java
predefined code you have to refer always now in result equal to zero if I don't write result zero then any compul error
by number 141
M4 already different look at that There is no compile time
error. Uh tell me why no compiled error for result not assigned because in try
and in catch you assigned in a in normal flow exception not rise. Result value is
what? Five. Catch is not executed. Finally executed high is printed.
Written. What the value? Five. Arithmetic exception is raised. A variable created value. Exception rised
here. Control will go to catch. What the value? Seven. Seven. Finally high
executed and written what? Seven. Here unknown exception is rised. If unknown exception is raised exception go to JDH
finally executed from the JDH taking the exception and going out. Is this high executed or not executed? Not executed.
Normal flow arithmetic exception flow.
Unknown exception flow.
All three cases you have to practice. Okay. Refer material. Are all these cases there or not? Next page. Compiler
thinking with respect to try catch. Finally,
same program I have typed here.
Manish Gupta did he join late Yes.
Then I think your mic is not working or uh
your ears are not working. I said refer material. All these cases
there in the material or not? I ask you to check. When you are checking why will I talk?
Check your mic properly.
All points are there material.
Okay, with this we completed r catch finally related all points. Okay, you
have to practice every case I explained in the material with the system and your
mind should connect to that points and remember how much you practice how you remember
that is your wish. I remember I am continuing my job. If you also remember
you can get job and continue in your job otherwise you will fail. Okay, look at
here. I want to ask a question. When an exception rises in one method,
is that exception caught by JVM in that method and terminate program
abnormally? Try to understand my question again.
I'll ask this is main method start.
main method end I'm creating static M1 method that M1
method I'm calling here okay now
in M1 method I'm writing same message M1 start M1 end in M1 method I'm calling
another method called what m2
okay m_sub_2 M2 M2 start M2 end and I'm calling another method
called M3. Uh now here I'm calling M3 method is
there. M3 start
M3 start uh removing this one and M3 end. Here I
am writing one message 10 by Z.
I raised one exception here in M3 method. Tell me what happened.
What happened? Tell me what is the flow of this program?
I run Java test 21 always. What is the output? Means from where you have to
start thinking from the Java not from the main method.
Main method is wrong third that is a hello world program only. Uh wait from where you have to start from command
prompt java test 12 and then what happened?
Java test 12 class is loaded. Next
next
static variable memory allocation. Next
static variable assignment and static flow. Then
main method flow much. You should not forget the flow. Uh main method. Next one is what?
Main start. M1 call. Then control will go to M1. M1 start. Then you call M2. Uh
then M2 start. Then M3. M3 start. Next
line system out print. What happened here?
Exception is rise.
What happened now?
Exception is rised. Correct. Uh next order
is a program execution terminated at line number three abnormally and control to JVM.
Yes sir. No. Yes sir.
I ask you go to my staff room bring the book.
You went to the staff room book is not found there. Exception rise. Then from there only you go.
That's right. Uh what will you do? He will come back to me and say book is
not found. M3 method asked M2 method is asking M3
method to execute something in the middle. If exception is raised if M3 method is terminated abnormally here
then what is M2 position? It is waiting for it. Now
you you your friend ask you to stay in the bus stop. I'll come. Okay. Then you
are waiting for your friend in the bus stop. Your friend not coming. Then what is your position? Lifelong bus stander.
Point. When someone asked you something to do,
you have to return to that person and should say either completed successfully
or failed. Both you have to tell either that or this. Then he will take the
decision what to do next. If completed normally I have to go like this. If fail I have to go like this. So you will take
the decision. Then what is the important point? Many people are feeling that when exception rises inside one method there
only JVM shutdown. No no no JVM will return this exception to calling method.
Are you catch my point? Like return value exception is also returned to calling method. That exception return to
calling method is not called return exception. It is called exception
propagation.
What is called exception propagation? So what is exception propagation? Sending
the exception from called method to calling method. sending the exception
from called method to calling method is called what? Exception propagation.
What happen when exception is propagated? Tell me because exception is raised M3 method execution terminator
abnormal. When exception is propagated uh tell me this line number M3 is
indirectly nothing but system.outer print and 10 by 10 by 0. Now at this
line number also what happened? exception is rise. What happen when exception is rise? Program execution is
terminated abnormally. So when exception is propagated, not
only called method, this calling method is also terminated abnormally. Uh that
means M2 method at line number 17 terminated. Uh M3 M2 method only terminated. No,
this exception is again propagated to the calling method M_sub_2 uh sorry M1.
Then M1 method execution also terminated at line number 10 at line number 11 abnormally and the same exception is
propagated to main method. Okay. Uh now the main method at line number five also
terminated abnormally and then return that exception to whom now? JVM. Then JVM print the entire exception
stack trace. JVM print the entire exception stack trace. Stack trace is
nothing but where exception in which method exception is raised from that method to where the control is
propagated propagated propagated. The entire method calling chain information is nothing but what stack trace
the entire stack trace will be printed. So tell me here what I got as an output arithmetic exception. Same arithmetic
exception is written. Same arithmetic exception is returned. The same arithmetic exception is sent to JVM.
Finally program execution is terminated abnormally fully start from M3 to M1
method observe output so that you'll understand
compiled successfully executed successfully with exception message and look at that M1 start
main start M1 start M2 start M3 start In M3 exception is raised and that
exception from M3 propagated to M_sub_2 propagated to M1 propagated to main and
finally main is also terminated up. Now everyone understand the flow
this entire method calling chaining exception rised in which method? M3.
That M3 called in which method? M2 that M2 called in which method? M1 that M1
called in which method? Main. This enter flow is called what? Stack trace. Okay.
Now tell me all people got clarity on exception propagation. What is an exception propagation?
Propagating means allowing the exception to go or sending the exception from
called method to calling method is called what? Exception propagation. What
happen when exception is propagated? Program execution the current method execution is terminated and exception go
to called method called method execution is also terminated. Calling method
calling method execution is also terminated. Called method means M1 calling method means M2. Tell me how can
we stop exception propagation? How long exception is propagated and how can we
stop exception propagation? Exception is propagated until we don't
catch once you catch exception can ball will
go in the cricket crown now the ball got I mean batsman play the ball is rolling
rolling rolling means what propagating towards bound line then in the middle the failure is the diving and stop the
ball propagated or not propagated not propagate so how can we stop exception
propagation catch it where in M3 method if you catch it's not propagated to M2
in M2 method you catch it is not propagated to M1 in M1 method you catch it is not propagated to main now let me
catch here in M1 method try open bracket close bracket catch of what exception
rise arithmetic
arithmetic exception here we are going to system dot outer print length double
quotes a e in m1
save it and tell me what the output of this program now start with
uh start with what class Java load uh now class is loaded searching for
not available searching for static blocks not available searching for main
method available Then propagated to sorry M1 start message print M start
printed M1 call going to M1 M1 start then M2 control come to M2 method
exception rises here. Now this exception is returned to M2 method. Did you handle
the exception? Did you catch that exception here? Then it's propagated to
M1 method. In M1 method, did you catch exception? Yes. Then it will go to catch
block. Then here exception is suppressed.
Execution is normal flow. Here onwards execution is normal flow. Control come
here with exception or without exception. Without exception. Then go to next statement.
uh execution is what normal flow. So finally what is the output you will get?
Main start. M1 start. M2 start. M3 start. Uh control come back
to M3 terminated. Come to M1. Uh M2 M2
M1. Then arithmetic exception is arithmetic exception caught in M1. M1
and control come to main without exception main end.
Okay, main start, M1 start, M2 start, M3 start. Look at there arithmetic
exception is caught in M1, M1 and main. So this is the flow you have to
practice. This is called exception propagation. when when when an exception
is rised inside the method. If you don't catch exception in that method, exception is propagated to calling
method. In calling method, if you don't catch that exception, exception propagated to its called method or JVM.
If JVM is calling, exception propagated to JVM. Tell me now when exception is
arised in the main method itself, that exception propagated to whom? JVM. Because who is calling main method? JV
understand exception propagation points. Check in the next page. You must find exception propagation.
points are there now. Okay. Now let me move to the next topic.
Up to now we have seen the exceptions are thrown by JVM. Can we also throw
exceptions? Yes.
Can we also throw exceptions? Yes. How can we throw exception? Observe. Very
simple. What is an exception? Exception is a object. How to create
object? How can you create object of a class?
Object and a class. uh first you have to create class and then you have to create instance of the class exception class I
have to create already available already available some micros system created and make them available in java.clank CL
package then what we have to do? Uh what we have to do we need just
access that class and create object which class which exception class object you want to create arithmetic exception
invalid amount I mean illegal argument exception illegal state exception array
index out of bounds exception class cast exception like that hundreds of exception classes are there based on
your runtime error you can choose the class and create object for that class
for the time being I am choosing what arithmetic excel Exception.
Arithmetic exception. And tell me how to create object of this class. Arithmetic exception. E1 equal to new
arithmetic exception. Tell me object ready. Object means what is this?
Exception. Exception ready. Uh just by creating exception object is exception
raised? No exception is created in the E area means in the JVM. In JBM exception
is created. Then what should I do now? I should uh come on guys. What I have to
do with the exception? I should catch exception. When I can catch exception if it is thrown up to
now who has throwing? Who is throwing JVM? Now we asked to throw V and tell me
next line. What should I do? I should throw exception. How can I return any
value? How can I print a value?
How can I print a value? I'm asking system out printed. How can we return
the same value? Return keyword. Return value semicolon. Now you want to return. You want to
throw now. How can you throw? Throw. Throw.
How to return? Return. How to print? Print. How to return? written how to throw throw throw.
What do you want to throw? Where is exception available? E1 semicol
is called throwing exception. Understand? Uh now I want to throw an
exception manually by myself. How can we throw? by using throw keyword throw E1
observe control one compile if I don't write this throw E1 here exception is
throwing a exception is created exception is created inside
JVM nothing is coming now what am I doing
throwing how to throw row E1 control one compile Control
to execute. Look at there. Hey mama
exception in thread domain java.lang.ithmetic exception at line number. Remember when
JVM thrown and we are throwing same message coming I think JVM internally
throwing exception by using throw keyword. H yes.
Can I also throw? Yes. Because you are also using Java language only. JVM also using Java language. You also using Java
language. But when JVM throwing exception I have seen here divided by 01
message but that message is not coming now because in your object you don't have message. This is a object or not in
this object. Do you have messenger? No messenger. No message. Uh exception created with without
error message. Tell me I want exception with error
message. What should I write? E1 equal to new. Uh if you want to store any
information inside the object, I must pass as argument to constructor. Now this is the constructor call right here
double quotes divided by zero. Control one
exception object creation with error message.
Uh, next line, what are you doing? Next line, what are you doing? Throwing
an exception manually by programmer. Control one. Now observe
same JVM message coming or not exception in thread main java. arithmetic
exception divided by zero. uh look at there I am commenting all these lines
and here I'm writing system dot out dot print ln uh double code sorry
10 by 0 what the meaning of this statement what happened when JVM found
logical mistake when JVM found logical mistake JVM finds the matching exception
class what the matching exception class arithmetic exception second it creates
that exception class object Third, it throws that exception and tell
me what is the matching class arithmetic
exception. Uh what is the object creation statement? Arithmetic exception
E1 equal to new arithmetic exception of with what the error message divided by
zero. And then next what it is doing? Throwing that exception throw E1.
Okay. Who did all these job previously? JB is doing. Now you become independent.
Earlier whose money you are eating father money. After Java completed uh
you become independent. You got your own job. Then you get your own money. Create exception object by your own and throw
that exception. Everyone understand? Uh so final conclusion is what is it possible to throw exception by
developer? Yes. How can we throw exception by using throw keyword? And tell me something about throw. Throw
keyword. Throw is used. Throw is a keyword. It is used for throwing an
exception manually by programmer. When when you throw just for fun.
Will I scold you for fun? No. If he is sleeping today, am I scolding him? No.
He is sleeping today. Am I scolding him? No. Why? Because yesterday night traveling come to Hyderabad.
Voting purpose. They went to the hometown yesterday. Travel to Hyderabad. So today sleeping no problem accepted.
Tomorrow you sleep Madre. Yes or no?
Say code.
And now tell me arithmetic exception E1 equal to new arithmetic exception. What happened here? Here exception object is
created and throwing exception. Uh when should I throw exception? Just for fun.
No come on. When should we throw exception? When JVM throw exception
when exception ris in the program when wrong values are passed or wrong
logic is developed. when developer must throw a exception when wrong values are
passed. Now let us try to see one practical example test 15.
uh now I am creating one method static wide m1 I am asking the user to pass
value int number okay I'm taking one number as a argument
which number I want to take uh now user a programmer other a programmer let me
take this one as class example and this as class test
uh Now this is another class developer. He wants to call example class method by
passing one number. Uh now tell me when developer look at this method he found
parameter is what? Int this int value can I pass or not? Yes.
Which int value I can pass. Positive number I can pass. Negative number. Any
range number I can pass. Is there any compile time error? No. Compiler accepts all types of values. No problem. Compile
successfully and executed successfully. From compiler
point of view, there is no problem. Okay, compiled successfully and executed
successfully because the past values are correct for JVM. Uh if I write here, if
I write here, if I write here, if I write here, uh 10 L allow not allowed.
Why not allow from compiler syntax point of it is a wrong value. 10 is a long uh
next 10.5 wrong value. True, right? True
is wrong value because as per syntax, these are not the int type value. So how
many compile time errors we got? Three compile time errors. control one compile
incompatible incompatible incompatible so what the solution to this problem here you can do you can't do anything uh
now I got a requirement sometime as per the project requirement some values I
don't want here only only positive
numbers are allowed only positive numbers are allowed tell me will compiler stop only passing positive
numbers no compile and execute
both are accepted. It is your responsibility as a method developer. It
is your responsibility to verify what type of values are coming into your method. Here you should write if
condition with a number uh number less than equal to zero. What
should I do? Accept that number. Should not accept. Should not accept. And I
should tell to the user your past value wrong. How can I tell to the user your past value wrong? By throwing exception.
Tell me how to throw exception. Throw exception. Which exception? E1. What is
that? Even arithmetic exception or illegal argument exception. We have
another class called what? Illegal argument exception. illegal argument
exception e equal to new illegal
argument exception of I want to give the error message here don't pass negative
numbers don't pass negative numbers and throw e
look at that with this story what happened tell me the flow of execution the past is what 10 10 coming to number
10 less than or equals to zero. No skipping this if block go here and 10 is
displayed control come back to main method again you call what minus 10 minus 10 coming to this number yes then
minus 10 less than or equals to zero. Yes. Then exception object is created
with error message and the exception is thrown. Tell me what happened when exception is thrown inside the method.
Is that exception caught by JBM or propagated to calling method? Propagated to calling method. Who is the calling
method? Main. Line number 18. Exception is rise. Then the next lines of the code executed or terminated. Terminated. And
exception given to JVM. Control one control.
Everyone understand? Uh the pass correct value 10 printed. The past next value is what? Negative number. Exception is
thrown. uh illegal argument exception with our error message at example m1
line number five main method line number 80. So hope all the people understand how to throw exception. Paka damn sure
really nice everyone understood.
What I did Hello. What I did?
What I did? My C here. Then why you didn't catch?
I have thrown pen to you. Why you didn't catch
you are? Oh, I didn't inform you.
My my mistake. No, I am throwing pen. I didn't inform to
you. You are looking at the screen. Seriously listening the class. Are you doing any mistake? Then why you are
saying sorry to me? Is it your mistake or my mistake?
Tell me I'm asking valid question. Whose mistake is this? My mistake. Right? You
are seriously listening in the class. Silently I taken penny here and thrown. How can you catch? Whose mistake is
this? My mistake. Ready? Now I'm throwing the pen. Ready? Ready. Catch.
Wow. Super. Now whose mistake?
No mistake. Why no mistake? I am throwing and I inform to him. So he
able to catch. All people understand. Concentrate. Main method is this fellow.
Main method is the student who is calling my method. I am silently inside the method. I am throwing exception.
Does he know that this method throwing exception?
My question understand other developer will call our method by
looking at the logica by looking at the signature only prototype and signature you will
see in the prototype you told it is a non-private method okay I can call who
test class developer I am M1 method developer you I am looking at your
method found your method is what non-private Yes, I can call static. I
should call by using class name return type. No need to assign to any variable
not returning value. M1 method name M1 asking to pass what integer number I'm
passing 10. When I pass 10, did you inform here anywhere in this method
prototype that you are throwing exception to me? No. Then what I will assume? Okay, this method accepting any
range of integer either positive or negative. Then I'm passing one positive number and passing one negative number.
When I pass positive number, you are silent. When I pass negative number, you are slapping me.
Sometimes when you're going next to one person, he just when you just pass him
backside slap you. Then what is your position? Get shocked and looking at that person.
Why you beating me? Yes or no? Uh if you are a if you are
also a strong person return giving back slapping or not fighting will be
started. Uh if the person who stand on the road with a board if you come nearer
to me I will slap you. Are catching my point? If he's having
board in his hand if you come nearer to me I'll slap you. Board is there clearly. Then will you go nearer to that
person? No. you will take care of catching yourself and going far distance. Same problem here. Try to
understand when you are throwing an exception inside the method, is it not
your responsibility to inform to this method developer? Hey, I am throwing the
exception. Must inform or must not inform. Must inform. How can I inform?
Throwing exception by using which keyword? Throw. I want to report this
exception to the developer. I want to report I want to report this exception
to the developer. How can I report this exception to the developer? By using
another keyword called what? Throws keyword. So tell me throws keyword is
throwing exception handling exception.
Come on guys, everyone should answer. What throws keyword is doing? Is it throwing exception or handling
exception? Throwing exception mindless idiots. Then what throw keyword
will do? If throws keyword is the throwing
exception, what throw keyword will do? Ra that's why you are such idiots. Mindless
idiots. Throw keyword is a throwing exception already told last 15 minutes I am
explaining I have to inform this exception to the developer for that I have to use the throws keyword throws
keyword is what he's doing informing handling what type of handling catching
or informing and tell me what is exception handling exception handling is the process of
catching or reporting the exception coming in the program uh try catch is
meant for catch ing throws is used for reporting or informing to whom this
method caller. Uh tell me now when I close this logic you are a method
developer. Tell me by seeing this entire method declaration can you decide this method is throwing an exception called
illegal argument exception. Uh now tell me when exception is thrown in this method that exception propagated to main
method. When exception propagated to main method what happened? Main method execution still continued or terminated
terminated abnormally. I don't want it terminated abnormally. Then what should I do? Catch it. How can
I catch? By seeing the throws keyword. By seeing throws keyword, you realize that oh this M1 method is throwing an
exception called what? Illegal argument exception. Then that illegal argument exception I am catching in the main
method to stop my program of normal termination. Understand? So tell me what the difference between throw and throws.
Throw is used for throwing an exception from a method when wrong values are
passed. Throws keyword is used for informing or reporting the exception to
the method caller that is throwing from our method. Does throws keyword throw exception?
Tell me here in this method I am commenting this line
is exception come to main method or not how much time you'll see my face answer
first I have commented throw e now because of the exception object created
or because of throws keyword is that illegal argument exception coming to the main method no tell me the flow of
execution I pass 10 10 come to Number variable parameter number 10 less than
zero no then go to after if what the number value printed 10 control come to
main method in the next line what you return of minus 10 then control comes to
m1 method parameter number variable contain minus 10 if minus 10 less than
or equals to zero no true then exception object is created
then next line next Throw is there are your eyes not working
error. I commented RA is the throw keyword executed or not executed. Uh
then control go after if then after if available statement number minus 10 is printed. Is the throws keyword meant for
throwing exception? No. Will throws keyword do any work at runtime? No. At
development time, compilation time. It is meant for giving information to
compiler and developer. This method is throwing exception called illegal argument exception in the method body.
In the method body if exception is not thrown will throws keyword will throw any compile time error? No. Will throws
keyword take the responsibility of throwing that exception? No. At runtime throws keyword has any importance? No.
It do nothing. Everyone understand? So it's very very important point.
exception throwing and reporting. Throw keyword is used for throwing an
exception. Throws keyword is used for reporting an exception.
Then if I don't report exception, if I don't use throws keyword, is exception
passed to the method or not? If I don't use throws keyword, is exception
throwing from this method will go to method or not? Come on, faster.
If I don't use throws keyword here, the exception throwing in this M1 method
will go to main method or not. No, no.
People who are saying no, please go to fifth floor and jump. Such a worst brand you are having.
Uh who is throwing exception? Throw keyword. When we use a throw keyword, exception is propagated. Then
what the use of processor to inform to the method developer that I am throwing exception by informing what the benefit
is getting. He's getting the benefit what he will write try catch.
He will write try catch and product is logic. Tell me now if I don't throw exception silently if I don't have board
in my hand then the person will come nearer to me and backside I'm slapping
now if I have board in front of me the people are coming near going away now
the going away is nothing but try catch now what I'm writing here try uh next
catch try try catch deleting this try catch
of which exception throwing from M1 method do you have information or no information. How to provide information?
Throws throws illegal argument exception
illegal argument exception because of this line I am writing here catch of
illegal argument exception. I don't want to display complete information of the exception.
I want to print only error of the error of the exception. What I should write? E dot get message. Control 1 compile.
Control 2 executed. Look at that. What is coming? Don't pass negative number.
Uh if I don't write this throws illegal argument exception, will developer have
an information to write try catch? No. Because of this throws keyword is getting information and writing try
catch. So finally tell me what is the use of throw? What the use of throws? What the use of try catch? Uh tell me
finally what the use of throw. Throw is used for throwing an exception when wrong values are passed. Next throws is
used for reporting the exception to the method caller. At compilation time and
exe compil development and compilation time throws keyword giving information
that is throwing from this method. At runtime throws keyword doesn't throw any exception. At runtime exception is
thrown only by using throw keyword. Inside the method if I don't use throw keyword we use only throws keyword. Is
there any exception coming from the program? No. I have used throw keyword but I didn't use a throw keyword. Is
there any exception coming in the program? No. Now yes. Uh then when throw
keyword throwing exception what the need of throws keyword? If I don't write throws keyword, this method caller don't
know that exception is throwing at development time. Hence, it will not write try catch at runtime. Exception
rised from the method and his logic terminated abnormally. Previously entered values are lost. So to solve
this problem, whenever you are throwing exception from your method, you must report that exception so that your
method caller will safeguard the method call by writing try catch. Everyone understand? So try catch is having
association with whom throws. Throws is having association with whom? Throw. So who is the root person raising the
exception? Throw. That riser exception informing by whom? Throws. Then who is
catching? Try catch. After catching exception compulsory I want to execute some statement where I have to write
that logic. Finally this is the end of exception handling full knowledge.
Everyone understand? Right. throw, throws, try, catch all four concepts
together I have shown you in one program. Clear? Right? Same program, same points are there in your material.
Please go through once. Tomorrow we are going to learn types of exceptions.
There are two types of exceptions are there. Checkered exception and unchecked exception. When you are dealing with the
checked and unchecked exception, throw throws keyword knowledge is very much essential. Hope everyone practice today
class and come tomorrow. uh types of exceptions. After that we have to learn something called check sorry custom
exceptions. We have to learn custom exception. Some micro system given so many exception all exceptions are not
satisfying our project requirement. For our project we have to create our own exception. How to create our own
exception? We have to learn then we will develop one project with all the knowledge you gain in exception handling
and in the projects with packages. So till tomorrow end of the class whatever
you learn from the first day hello world program to till tomorrow end of the class whatever you learn all points we
will include in one project and we will develop it so that you will get full-fledged idea what you have done up to now clear my point thank you that's
all for today class practice and come
this throw throws keyword notes also available in the material go through once

