ript


Okay guys, good morning. Last class we have completed exception
handling. Uh can I expect everyone understood? Uh tell me when to use the try catch
for stop abnormal termination. Try catcher. Okay. Try catch first stop. Sorry. Yeah,
correct. When do you throw throws? For throwing exception. When will you
throw exception? Because you know how to throw exception.
Correct? Because you know how to throw exception, we will throw exception. Correct? Uh no. When when we should
throw exception, if the given values are wrong, if the
given values are wrong, then we should throw exception. Okay. How can you find given values are right or wrong?
Come on. How do you know given values are right or wrong?
By using if condition. By using if condition, we will come to
know the given values are right or wrong. Inside if condition, if given values are wrong found, then we'll throw
exception. Uh when you throw exception, what happen?
When we throw exception what happen
is terminated abnormally means this method execution is terminated and
control return to calling method. This method execution is terminated control return to calling method. Okay. In
calling method what you should do? We should leave the exception and catch exception. We must catch the exception.
Okay. Uh for catching exception what should I use? Try catch. The next question how do you know which exception
is coming from your calling method? Uh correct by using throws keyword. By
using throws keyword. Okay. After exception c I need to execute some logic
compulsory. Where I should write that logic? In the finally block. So when I
say exception handling you people should have the program template
when you say exception handling you must have program template in your mind. What
what template? Okay main method and one business logic method. In business logic
method method has a parameter taking the value check the value wrong value throw
exception. Okay. and report that exception using throws cube. So we have
to see side by side two classes. What the two classes? Main method class and business logic class. In the business
logic class, main method throw throws. Uh in the user class, main method class,
write that method call with an runtime values and then catch in the catch block
either you write your own message or call E.get message or E.RT stat message.
Okay. So that structure you should have once upon a time long long ago
when you are kid where where you are kid when you are life in
Java life uh in Java life when you are a kid.
Okay where is that kid? Uh old Google classroom.
Okay Google classroom. Go down. Go down. Go down.
These people are always enable
uh you learn something called once upon a time long long ago.
You learn something called what?
do something called what? Language fundamentals and business logic
in this chapter. In this chapter, what did you learn?
Yesterday, February 24. How do I know?
Huh? What did you learn in this chapter? Any of you recollect?
Sorry.
What did this chapter? Come on. I can hear your voice. Reading random values. Hey, reading
random value chapter is different. This is different.
Language fundamentals. Uh what are the language fundamentals?
What are the language fundamentals?
Any of you in the class? What are the language fundamentals? Online students come on you can copy now copy.
Open Google classroom in your system. Open that files and then tell at least
copy paste man online students offline students don't have that chance at least online students you have freedom now
come on what are the language fundamentals
data types operators control flow statements
exception handling statements uh data types replacement for creating variables and storing values.
Operators for performing validations and calculations to generate result. Control
flow statements for controlling execution flow. Exceptional statements for throwing and catching an exception.
By using these four concepts, we must have built logic.
What are the steps to build logic? There are four steps are there. Step number one.
Huh? Step number one.
Step number one. Try. Try silent. Don't sit silently. Try. Recall it. Ask
your brain. Hello brain. Come out that points. Uh. Step number one.
Uh, read values from the keyboard. Read and store values in the program. From
where you read and store values? either from the keyboard or from the other programmer as argument. Uh next
verify those values are correct or wrong. Yesterday you did the same. I am
asking yesterday you read the values from the keyboard and pass those values to the add method. Uh after that verify
those values are right or wrong. Right or wrong.
Right. Then perform calculations. generate result values are wrong.
Throw a exception. That's what we did yesterday.
Read and store input values from other programmer or keyboard. Validate those
values. Values are correct. Perform calculation. Generate result. Return or
display result. What you did yesterday? Display return. return in main method we stored in the
way local variable and printed and next throw an exception with error message if
the given values are wrong throw exception with error message or display error message
understood so simple right uh that day when I was explaining this all people felt
what are you teaching we are not understand you know after 3 months also you not understand
such a nice people here uh develop a program to add two numbers and display result. If the passive numbers are
negative, throw exception. That day we throw a illegal argument exception, predefined exception. Why? Because you
don't know how to create a exception. Uh now today you know how to create exception. So we are throwing our own
exception. Uh next if past numbers are positive then only add those two numbers and return result. This is the program
we developed and this is the code complete code
already shared and now explanation yesterday program same program the
complete program explanation in above program we have used data type in for storing return for specifying the return
type and of add method and for creating parameters for add method and also use it for creating variable in try for
storing result data types. Second, we use the operators to verify the given value right or wrong and also performing
calculation also for storing result. Uh the above program we have used control
flow statements if and else for knowing given value correct or wrong controlling the flow of execution. And then in above
program we have used exceptional statement throw for throwing an exception throws for reporting exception
try for placing exception causing statements catch for catching the exception. And then case one compilation
and execution. Okay. Case one execution flow with case one execution flow with
case two. So today next run below test cases to
understand functionality of throw throws try and catch remove throws IE see that
any compile time error. If you remove throws IE, no compile time error because that is unchecked exception. If you
remove throws negative number exception, you will get compile time error because it is checked exception. Next place
throws IE and remove new IAE. Uh then no compile time error. Will you
get exception at runtime? No, no exception will come. So what do you understand from case one, case two?
Throws keyword is not meant for throwing exception. It is meant for only reporting exception. Place throws new
IAE. Now remove try and catch and if you remove try and catch IAE doesn't throw
error because unchecked exception uh negative error sorry negative number exception our custom exception will
throw compile time error unhandled exception because it is a checked exception. So these points once again
read and program already yesterday given now here also same program there. So
what you have to do everyone compulsory today after going to room read this
chapter number four every slide and digest at least now because we come as end of
the course almost maximum 15 days remaining in our course. Okay. So these
15 days also if you don't work these 15 days also if you sit ideally in the classroom like a statue like chase
chro your body any difference ch doesn't have brain you also doesn't have brain huh you have brain but you
are not using when I ask you questions you are not responding why I don't understand even not trying also to bring
the answers from your brain okay so change change this maximum now 15 days
are remaining Okay, this 15 days if you work hard along with me you are going to get benefits entire all previous
chapters will be revised all previous chapters will be revised and you will
and by end of the course you'll get a confidence yes I learn everything and I understood I can perform well in the
interview I can answer to the interviewer questions so again requesting everyone complete this
chapter will you will you remember I said I gave
assignment Will you remember? Huh? Okay, I will remind you. Don't worry. So, afternoon one time I'll send remind
message in Google classroom and night also I'll give message. Tomorrow morning
also I'll give remind message. Three times I'll send reminder message. Let's see. Will you complete and come?
No hurry.
Oh, after silver sauce you want me to stay with you guys.
Yes sir. Sorry baba. Diver course completed break up.
Ah he came today since yesterday is okay. Now today we are going to learn
uh Java 7 new features in exception handling. Did you see yesterday I have uploaded throw throws keyword and all
the slides. Okay,
let us understand throw Java 7 new features with exception and delete.
In Java 7 version, we have two new features given in exception and what the
two new features. You may ask me sir, why you are going to
5 p.m. batch? My batch is 9:00 a.m. Both batches are running same topic. Why
I need to type two folders? That's why both I'm saving at one place.
uh morning I'm teaching here and evening there I'm teaching
sir JVM which
workshop you told did you attend that workshop
Yeah, I took you attended. Not attended.
No. Why? It's your mistake. No,
I didn't told. I already told you is saying now WhatsApp happened
you are not getting updates that's your problem not my problem you people are creating problem yourself
and saying I am creating problem and now look at here I'm creating
fine output stream
foss equal to new file output stream.h
Uh okay, God bless you. File output stream foss equal to new file output
stream of double quotes. Uh what do you write? Say some file abc.txt.
Tell me this file this is a IBO stream chapter but still accept it line like
scanner. Scanner sen equal to new scanner. We have a class called what? File output stream. for SQL new file
output stream it is connecting to what file abc.txt if I run this program this program test
program will establishes the connection to abc.txt txt file. Is it clear? Second
point after that I am using this object. FOST write of FOS.right Write of uh what
you write double quotes say my name I am write okay write of some 97 I'm right
okay uh file writer okay in place of this let me take file writer file writer
fw equal to new file writer of
okay and fw dot write of I can write now the name
what I did here created object and then what I did here uh
writing the I mean using that object again repeating create the object using
that object after using this object I should close that object now
uh before closing I should flush the data flesh
then what I did create object using that object flushing the data into that
object object five. Now finally data is saved. Now the next question is very important. I told in the last class
whenever you open connection based object you must create the connection then use that connection and I have to
close the connection. If you don't connection if I don't close the connection what is the problem? It will
uh the connection will be open and other user cannot access that connection is a time waste. So after us says what I
should do call close method. Now my question is
is this code compiled or not compiled? First question is this code compiled or
not compiled? Not compiled. Why not compile? File writer class cannot find
symbol file writer class. Where file writer class is available? File writer class is available in the package
java.io. io java.io.star java.io.star
in java.io package the pack the class is available. Okay. Now is it compiled?
Class is found. Now is it compiled? No. You will get compile time error
file. Huh? You will get compile time error. Read this compile time and tell me what
should I do? Why I'm getting this error?
Huh? What is the meaning of this error? Why you are getting this error?
File writer is throwing an exception when compilation time or runtime
and will throw may throw uh is throwing a reporting
uh should not say throwing you should say what report file output file writer class constructor who can report
exception class constructor constructor and method constructor and method will report the exception. So file writer
class constructor reporting an exception io exception we must catch that
exception. uh tell me now why I should catch if I don't catch why is it getting
problem because why you are seeing my face
try to answer yesterday chapter yesterday topic because when you'll get exception when I constructor reporting
exception why we will get compile timer when we access it
because it is what type of exception checked except ion did you study
yesterday points or not? Tell me truth any why?
Why you didn't study? Answer reason why reason why you didn't
study. No problem. Thanks for telling the truth that you didn't study. Why you didn't study?
Reason just want to know reason. Previous revising previous chapters
which chapter
old Google classroom you are studying
remaining people you also studying old Google classroom so shall I take break
until you come to exceptionality shall I stop the classes
Yeah. Then how can you understand today class?
You are in past. I am in future between there is a lot of gap. So there is no
one day trying to bring you from there to here. So I have to wait until you come. Shall
I stop the classes for 10 days to 15 days and then
tell me I exception is what? checked exception. Tell me why is it
checked exception? When we create an exception as a
checkered exception. When an exception is created as a
checked exception. When the exception is dealing with the
errors coming from outside resources. Uh tell me file writer is an object that
is working with outside resource called file. Then if connection is unable to
establish to outside resource then one exception should come that exception
must be handled at what time? Development compilation time or development time. Sorry execution time
or development time or development time. Development time only that exception has to handle. If the file is not available
then what is the alternative logic to execute? Who should take the decision? End user should take decision. Developer
has to take decision. Developer has to take decision. I'm repeating again. When
your object connecting to external uh
that is the problem with you the terminology what I use you have to repeat not your own words. Okay. when
your class object is dealing with external resources.
Uh tell me when should I call something is a resource a file or a database or a network that
has connections from our Java program is called what resource. A object that
contain the connection to the external things.
A object that has a connection to the external things then we call that object
connection is what? Resource or that external things are called what? Resource. Point is clear. Uh now tell me
when your object is dealing with the external objects. And if you want to handle the problems coming from the
external resource connections those exceptions we have to create as what checked exception. So that developer
will write uh developer force you to handle that exception. Hence developer will take care of handling that
exception by providing alternative logic at a development time runtime we don't face the problem and end user doesn't
face problem is the statement understood really today on the statement only Java
7 new features came okay what is the word today class word resource thanks
okay class is only on resource the word resource uh now tell me I exception is a
checked exception. Okay, I should handle how many ways we can handle two ways. Either by using throws or by using try
catch. But tell me which one is a good idea throws or try catch? If I use throws is exception caught? No. A
program terminated normally? No. And then I should use try try uh then close
catch off. Uh catch off. What exception I should handle? IO exception E.
IO exception E open bracket closed bracket. Tell me what message I have to print here. Should I print any
information to end user? End user sorry connection fail. If I say to end user
connection fail, can you do anything? No. Now this information should print to the end user customer. Sorry, end user
developer. Developer. So developer means complete information I have to print. So what I have to write print stack trace
everyone understand why I have written print stack trace. Uh when you see your project in catch block if e.t print
stack trace is there that means the exception information is printing for developer then developer will uh go to
that particular java file line number and solve that exception and come back. Clear? Uh then next question. If I
compile this program now is it successfully compiled? Yes. Is it clear?
Now I'm asking a question. Think and tell me. Is this code right design or
wrong design? Is this right design code or wrong
design code? It is a wrong design code. Why is it wrong design code? Huh? You are calling
close method. Closing connection is optional and mandatory. Mandatory. Where did you call f close inside try block is
can you guarantee try block is always executed? No. Uh first line number six
object created successfully while writing data line number seven or flushing the data line number eight
there is a chance you may get exception. Uh if the exception is coming go to what catch block then tell me fw.c close will
work or will not work will not work is not executed. Finally connection closed or not closed? not closed. Then what the
solution to this problem? Uh we have to write it inside catch
block also. So if I write in catch block some other exception other than I
exception rise then close method not executed. So what is the good idea? Excellent. We have tried what? Finally.
Come on try. Finally. Finally. Huh? Finally. Finally.
Finally. Finally. fw.c Close.
Nice. Correct. Code now. Right. Design code. It is right. Huh? Program compiler.
Tell me. Program compiler not compile. Once you
write the code, you have the compiler. You are the compiler. You are the JVM. Come on. Program compiler not compile.
Uh line number one. Import statement class main method. Try object. Write
method. No problem. Flash method. No problem. Catch IY exception. Iy exception already imported with a star.
Then inside E. Track trace. E do. Track trace. You are calling two members.
Number one E and PR track. Where is E? The E is already available in the catch
parenthesis. Print track is a predefined method available in E-class IIO exception. Any problem here? No. Then
finally any problem? No. In finally FW.LO.
Problem one. No problem.
Sorry what uh last class I told you compiler
thinking algorithm if you create variable inside a try can we access from catcher finally after try catch finally
uh that's what I'm telling every point everyday class is important for next classes to understand if you are not
practicing previous classes next classes I cannot teach each and every point in detail. I have to keep on skip skip.
Okay. And I'm not happy and you are not happy. What I skip? When you will come to know
in the interview room? When you come to know if at all interview also you escape. When you come
to know in a company understand that time again you will send
message. Hurry sir when other batch starting again
or he will start scolding me that va fellow
I'm you are we are
okay fw.c Close. It is a compile time error. Cannot find symbol variable F
table. You know while writing the line itself
if your mind is compiling when you will get that practice when you remember
previous FW.lo Close. What is FW? That is a local variable to try. This is compul and your
body and brain is know when you know the already points your body never sit like
this arm say okay your body back never touch chair
back side your body cannot sit you know relaxed way on the chair. The moment I type fw.c
close and then you are with it. Ah wrong. So body started jumping on the chair.
But it's wrong. You're waiting when I will ask to say wrong. You never body
never relax. By seeing your body language I can say you are not understanding anything here.
Understand? I am writing your C
then faculty can enjoy teaching. Students feel happy to listen the class
always waiting what when course completed sir you tell today close completed tomorrow not we are very happy
correct am I talking correct or wrong.
So you have to enjoy the subject when you enjoy when you practice yesterday
class and remember come to the next class. So the moment when I write here your mind say FW compile time error mama
that is local to try uh okay cannot find symbol FW. When you see this error
immediately what your mind should tell solution to this error. Is your mind
telling solution? No. You see error error smiling and looking at me. What next?
What next? I should tell her. You should tell. Now tell me what the solution.
Uh create file writer outside. Complete line outside of only variable
declaration outside completely outside. If you completely write outside constructor will call
nearer. Right. So constructor is right outside
it is again forcing it to handle I exception. Uh so where I have to write this line
constructor call should be inside. Try only variable declaration is
outside. H compile not compile. Why not compile?
If you declare variable outside, initializer inside, can I use that initializer value in the catch and
finally after try catch finally? No. Because
this line may or may not execute. Compiler feels that this line may or may not execute.
Now tell what the solution. I must assign default value. What the default
value of FW? Null. So null you have to assign. Let me show you that control one compiler will
throw error. Variable might not have been initialized. Okay. Variable might not have been
initialized. How can you use this variable for calling the method? So uh we have to assign default value to solve
the compile time error at runtime. Uh control go to try. Then f equal to
assign with a file writer and write method call. Flush method call. Catch block not executed. Finally close the
connection. Everything goes smoothly. Now uh now tell me this arranging code
is for JVM purpose or for compiler purpose. Compiler. Compiler has all the
rules and regulations to satisfy compiler. We have written all these ones. Tell me in advanced Java in place
of file writer what will be there? Connection con equal to statement stmmt
equal to prepare result set rs equal to will be there. Then inside the try block
you are creating objects and calling get methods to get the data from the database. Catch block with the SQL
exception. Finally with what close connections. Okay tell me the connection
variable statement variable result set variable should create in the try block or should create before try block then
only I can access inside finally block. when you create outside of the try and
want to use in the finally they must be initialized with the default values. So connection con equal to null statement
est equal to null results at rs equal to null will be returned. Understand? Now
the question when those three statements return assigning with null your faculty will tell it is a coding standard.
Is it coding standard or ruler? Assigning the variable with null when
you want to access them from the finally is it a recommendation or coding standard or ruler rule if you don't
write null compiler throw error feeling that it is not initialized then why your faculties are telling that uh it is
recommendation you should write because they don't know that compiler thinking
three cases okay how they know when they will know that compiler thinking three cases if
they are thinking deeply Why error coming reason if they if they're searching for the reason in
their brain they'll come to know that so I explained every point neatly you have to use the same points in advance Java
core Java to advanced Java there is no difference same core Java points only
coming in advanced Java then where is the difference advanc Java class names and method names are different but the
syntax the way you are writing code everything is same as core Java when you join advanced Java don't try to copy
advanced Java faculty brain to your brain only copy the names of advanced
Java easy explanation is a knowledge you don't try to take you have to carry our
core Java knowledge only to the advanced Java and in advance Java only you collect the class names and method names
that's it whenever faculty say it is a recommendation why recommendation
why is it recommended if I don't follow what is the problem question the reason behind every concept why is designed
like that. If not designed like this, what is the problem? So if you don't question, you will become follower and
you'll face lot of problems in company without with my personal experience I'm
telling. So lot of problems you'll face in the company when you don't question your faculty. Even in Kurj also that's
what I'm frustrating. You are not questioning me. You are not asking me. That's what I am
frustrating. When I say that's all for the day going
silently going no one asking any question sir next day if I ask any questions you are not replying anything
that's why I'm getting frustration sadra chadandra chadandra you read and come read and come write the questions ask
the questions get so many doubts explore the content you have so much of knowledge you will get from me encourage
me to teach sometimes I'm getting frustration because
I'm not giving them my entire knowledge not I am not I'm unable to give you are not receiving sometimes I'm getting the
frustration sometimes I'm feeling I want resign from the teaching
but people are not letting me go really
real I'm telling you now I cannot teach to this generation
such a lazy irresponsible generation
finally do you understand This is there any compile time error?
Come on. Is there any compile time error up here? No compile time error. Is there
any compile time error in this fw.close? Think
yesterday 7 p.m. new batch I gave one assignment
hello world program totally 30 errors you write and come I
gave assignment to you also out of 500 students two people completed
that assignment.
700 p.m. New batch. New batch. Just started a batch. Just started people are
not interested to work and ask them why you didn't work. Everybody nicely smiling at me.
Now why you are smiling? Why you didn't complete? Tell the reason smiling.
Then how they will understand next program? Next program will explain based on the assignment.
I hate teaching. I love discussing. I hate teaching. I
love discussing. If you want to discuss, you should also have knowledge. Now
that knowledge is also from where previous class only, not a new knowledge somewhere. You don't need to grab
that's what I'm getting problem. Find out there is a compiled memory.
Anybody can guess syntactically everything correct. Now sir, no something is missing. What?
What is the current chapter? Uh think from the chapter pointer
exception handle. Did I handle exception?
H did I handle exception?
When I call close method, what close method is doing?
It is closing the connection. When can it close connection? If already
connection is available, if already connection is available, it
can close the connection. If connection is not there,
huh? Come on. If connection is not there, can it close the connection? No.
Then it will throw I exception because it is dealing with outside resource. It will throw I exception. Uh should I
handle that? I exception or did it handle or not handle then compiler throw
but there unreported exception I exception must be
handled that's what you have to think around close method what it is doing it
is the closing the connection if connection is not available how beautiful it will close then what it
will tell it will throw me error tell me how to solve this compiled error. Try
catch throws or try catch. Try catch. No throws. Now tell me you can write throws
but throws is stopping abnormal termination. No, I want to stop abnormal termination. Can I write try catch
inside? Finally try catch I exception e open bracket
closed bracket e dot print stack trace.
Now tell me can I write like this?
Yes sir. No no uh why doubt again doubt right or wrong. If I say right you will
scold. If I say wrong you will scold. Why will I? Do you feel I am a satist
for everything? I will scold. No I will scold only when you are not giving answer. Paka paka will scold if you are
not giving answer. If you give answer right or wrong no problem but same
mistake again and again if you commit again I will throw error I mean I will scold you no doubt two times I will
scold same mistake committing again and again not responding in the class I'll frustrated when I giving wrong answers I
never get angry I'll try to correct your mistakes and tell me allowed or not allowed not allowed why not allowed
allowed try finally
Allowed or not allowed? Allowed. What is this concept is called?
Nested a try catch. The try catch placed inside a try or inside a catch or inside
final is called what? Nested a try catch. This allowed no problem. Uh is it
compiled now successfully? Yes. Already we learned that point. Wherever
you want to catch exception, there you write try catch. I want to catch exception in the method, write try catch
in the method. I want to catch exception in the try. Write in the try. I want to
catch exception in the catch. Write try catch in the catch. I want a catch exception the finally. Right in the
final. Everyone understand? Paka. Still one more problem there. Here. No compile
time error. No compile time error. But at runtime there is a chance we'll get
one exception here. What is that?
Huh everyone? One more problem is there.
Hello. At runtime we have one more problem.
When we use reference variable dot dot dot will throw null pointer
exception. FW variable is assigned with what? Null. Whenever you assign a
variable with null and if you invoke dot operator by using if you invoke dot if I
invoke any non-static member by using that null reference variable using dot then there is a chance we'll get null
pointer exception. 100% will get a chance. Let us decide that chance. Uh
tell me line number five FW variable created with what value? Then control go
to in that try there is a chance at this line number seven exception rised or
not? Maybe file is not available exception is rised. uh then control will
go to where catch in the catch exception is caught and printed the enter information about the exception and
control come to finally in finally control go to try FW close what is FW
compilation file writer runtime is what value what is FW value null Null dot to
close. What happened? Null dot to close. Can
close method call on null pointer? No. Then what happen? You will get null pointer exception. Null pointer
exception you will get. So what should we do? Uh here I should write if f
not equal to null then call close method.
Yeah, Java very tough. Java is very tough. I'll go my home
back. This is only Java complete.
This one code if you practice Java complete.
Really in this small code, how many chapters are there? Now let us revise.
Chapter number one, data types. Hello world program. Chapter number one.
Chapter number one, essential statements of Java program. Class main method. SOP
class main method. SOP princely using SOP. Chapter number two, escape sequence
characters. Uh in this program, escape sequence characters are not there. There inside
print stack trace method at line number coming space no
in a print stack race method at line number printing with a tab space only /
t is used next third I mean next chapter comments identifiers and keywords test
com identifier identifier public static wide null try new catch finally if all
these are what keywords second chapter first chapter covered second chapter covered. Third chapter. Fourth chapter
edit plus. Edit plus using. Okay. Fourth chapter language fundamentals and
building logic. Okay. Building logic. What are building logic? Uh use the data
type for creating variables to store values and object. Second read values
from the keyboard and store ABC. Read. Uh next verify is it a valid or not?
File writer internally verifying is this ABC.X available or not. Right? If not valid,
throw exception. Uh file writer throwing exception and catch that exception.
Right? Building logic. Fourth chapter completed. Fifth chapter data types. File writer is a data type. Reference
data type. And next uh uh you know string is a reference data type. Uh next
after that variable and objects you go FW variable.
New file writer object. Next array.
Next chapter is what?
Operators. Operators. Assignment operator. Not equal to null. Not equal to operator. Operators. Use next.
Control flow statements. If you have used control flow statement and next
after control flow statements, what did you learn? Data teacher is no. Next object oriented
programming class object file writer class new file object and next variable
types of variables local variable fw right and then e parameter arcs
parameter and next method and types of methods write method non-static method
plus method non-static method print stat method non-static method next chapter
this keyword block high jumper. Uh this keyword what this
keyword and tell me when you call write method f object is passing as a argument
to write method as a current object and write method writing this hurry in the object FW pointing object. How is it
possible? By using this uh this keyword covered next chapter
uh variable hiding local preference. Okay here variable hiding local preference will be there in the
constructor. Uh next sorry variable hiding and variable shadowing. Variable shadowing. Next chapter.
Next chapter. Setter getter method. Setter getter method. Constructor. Set get method not required here.
Constructor is used. Uh next chapter block types of blocks. Next chapter.
After block types of blocks what you learn? Encapsulation. And tell me in the
file writer class do you know what variables are available? No. Right. uh so this is a con encapsulation file
writer class contain internally variable per story abc.txt txt file okay and constructor parameter assigning the
value to the non-static variable available in this file writer and next I'm accessing this file why write method
it is encapsulation next inheritance file writer class is a subclass of
writer file writer class is a subclass of writer inheritance is there uh next
polymorphism writer class write method is overridden in file writer class
method of writer class is overridden in file writer class and it is executed from file writer class runtime
polymorphism polymorphism runtime polymorphism uh IO exception is a
subclass of exception exception is a subclass of throwable and princ method
is the method of throwable called by using iO exception uh this is what
reusability code reusability inheritance when you develop inheritance you can do either Reuse the existing class members
or override the existing class members. Write method flush method overriding and print stack trace method is what?
Reusing. Uh next after polymorphism abstraction. Write method is a abstract
method. Abstract class. Writer class. Super class. Rile writer class. Super class is what? Writer class. Writer
class is a abstract class which contain abstraction forcing the file writer class to override write method according
its requirement. That is called abstraction. After abstraction what we discussed exception handle
exception handling handle the exception in exception handling what you have learned exceptions and unchecker
exception. IO exception is a checkered exception. You have to handle wherever I exception is coming there you have to
handle in the method coming IO exception we handle in file finally block again I'm getting IO exception also I handle
next what is the right way of placing the variables scope of the variables uh
if you want access the variable from one block to another block that variable I have to create outside of the block if
you are creating the variable outside accessing initializing inside accessing outside. First of all, we have to
initialize that variable otherwise get variable might not have been initialized.
So tell me from first day of our class to till yesterday whatever we discussed
everything available in this program or uh this one program if you practice thoroughly complete core Java will be in
your hand. Next advanced Java same program serlet
same program spring same program what is changing from one program to another
program class name and method names but the template is what same so how many
times you have to learn template one time how many times you learn cycle writing one time lifelong you are using
different different cycles when you're rising when you are when you are riding are you understanding again balancing
are you understanding Riding cycle understanding the what do you call the uh structure of the cycle if a sport
cycle like this bend and ride if is a normal our grandfather cycle or normally
stand and write there is only the difference same thing core Java file
writer advanced Java connection statement prepare statement is everyone understand this code paka will you buy
hard this code no right by heart Huh that's what I am
telling last 15 minutes rau this is a fixed code you are writing the same code in advance same code in your company not
doing any changes so what you have to do by please five times 10 times imposition
you write so that you'll understand each line you understand why I'm writing why I'm writing why I'm writing why I'm
writing like this where is the problem if I don't write like this okay uh
Finally, I want to ask one question. Sun micro systemystem in 1995
promised to every Java developer, you don't write, I will write. You are my
user. You are my guest. You are my god. I will serve you. Please take my
services. In 1995, Sun Micro System has told to
all developers, Java is a technology. I will provide so much of predefined API
to you. Only thing is you have to reuse it. Don't write reuse. Don't write
reuse. Then initial versions they have only planned on API providing predefined
classes providing. Slowly slowly from Java 5 version onwards they realized
that all predefined code we develop then developers no need to write the code for
everything only their business logic related code only they have to write common code everything we have provided
boiler plate code I have provided common code boiler plate code I have provided then what next then Java 5 onwards some
micro systemystem started looking at Java oh there are some syntaxes repeated
code. Syntax wise repeated code is there. Logic wise repeated code is written by
sun micros system are given to us but later they have found syntax wise
repeated code is there. Then there are some other points are there in Java 7
version they identified exception handling wise repeated code is there. Let us try to find out all people watch
creating this variable is repeated coder we have to write we have to write next
because you want a file reader file writer or connection statement a prepared statement I don't know now next
so you have to write next catching exception try catch is repeated coder no
you only has to catch what exception coming how compiler knows next inside try creating object calling write method
plus the data is repeated code. No, you have to write only because it's your business logic. Catching exception,
developing exception handling code is repeated code. No, because exceptionally what code you want alternate code it is
your responsibility. Then now tell me finally block code is it not repeated
code? Come on think
if I write here file writer FW what I have to call close. What close? FW.lo
close. If I write here file reader, what I should write here? FR dot close. If I
write connection con, what should I write here? con.t close. That means this finally block code is it not repeated
code? Yes. If I tell you bus stand, bus number, can you go to the bus stop and
bus number and catch and can you travel? What you don't know? Bus number you
don't know. If I tell you the bus number, can you travel or not? Yes. Because traveling is the same. Buying
ticket, catching the bus, sitting in the bus and traveling is what? Same. What is changing? Only bus number means variable
name is changing. If I tell you the variable name, can you call the close method? Yes. To call close method, what
should I write? Finally, inside finally try inside finally not equal to null
check and then call close and then catch off IY exception and then print statress.
Everyone understand? uh tell me when this code is repeated then why you are
writing some micro system promised you don't write I will write you don't write I will write right uh then sun micro
system telling helloish from Java 7 onwards don't write
from which version onwards you don't write compiler will write who
will write which compiler old compiler or new compiler Old compiler old compiler has only one
path what is that one path I don't write you only write only 130 is there for the
old compiler I don't write you write for Java 7 compiler has two brains brain old
brain I don't write new brain I will write now it is in dilemma old brainer new brainer which brain has to use old
brain and new brainer old brain should use if new brain is used my Old projects
will fail compilation. Come on. When you go to your hometown,
first you will use your brain with the old style and new style. Old style means
from the childhood you are speaking your mother. Suddenly in Hyderabad you will learn English. Then you go back to your
home. You're talking to your mother and father in English. They will get doubt.
Right? When any other person who know English
then if you speak English new style in English then accepted right that means whenever new feature is added to the
Java what should be supported backward compatibility what compatibility
backward compatibility means old style only should work in the latest version.
Whenever you want a new style, it is your responsibility to tell to compiler hello use a new style not old style.
Then tell me did you tell the new styler just remove the finally block? You just remove finally block compiler slap you
fellow where you are handling exception. Sorry. Uh tell me if I write a new style
is a closed method is placed for it? No. Is the connection is closed? No. Then
how can I tell to compiler compiler compiler I am not writing finally block
I want you write finally block. What I should say compiler I am not writing
finally block you write finally block. For other purpose one simple statement
you have to write parenthesis. What the new syntax you are writing parenthesis. Try parenthesis. Try
parenthesis in Java 6 version. Parenthesis allowed or not allowed? Not allowed. Java 7 version onwards
parenthesis allowed inside this parentheses uh inside this parenthesis I
should move this variable here and then I should move this object
creation here. Okay, close parentheses open bracket.
Understand the code what you have written. Write file writer FW equal to
single equal to file writer FW equal to new file writer of abc.txt.
Uh tell me by writing the object creation statement in the try parenthesis we are informing to compiler
you have to close this object by your own by end of the uh try block by end of the try block you
only close exception sir you only close this object by your own I don't close
everyone understand uh if you say to the compiler by writing this this concept is
called try with the file writer Object is what type of object? Connection
object. Connection object is called what? I forgot today class word resource. Uh
tell me what this concept try with resource. What are the Java 7 new
feature? Try with resource. With the with this feature try with resource, I
can avoid writing finally with the close method call. Compiler software
automatically place finally with close method call. Who is placing? Compiler
will place when control come out of this try block. Compiler software 100%
guarantees that file writer object will be closed by end. Compiler only will place file writer sorry compiler only
place close matter for file writer. So what is the old syntax? Try open bracket closed bracket. If I write try open
bracket closed bracket is it with a try with resource without resource without resource. That means will compiler write
try parenthesis? No. No. No. I mean will compiler write finally block with the closed method call? No. Uh if you want
to tell to compiler I want you only write finally with a try finally with the closed method call. Then you have to
create that object inside try. Now the question how many objects I can create in the try? Your wish any number of
objects you can create. There is no objection 1 2 3 4 uh now but you have to separate one object to another object
with a semicolon everyone understand right
uh again I'm repeating what is the Java 7 new feature in Java 7 for exception
handling one new feature is added called what try with the resource with this feature we can avoid writing finally
with the closed method call with this new feature behalf of us compiler software will add try with compiler
software We will write finally with close method called automatically inside what is the syntax for try with
resource try following by what parenthesis and object creation statement. What type of object I can
create? Can I create string object? No. Can I create student object? No. Can I
create employee object? No. We can create only resource object. What object? Resource object. Uh how can I
say it is a resource object? An object that has a connection internally
and can be closable. An object that has a connection and that can be
autoclosable. What autoclosable? We call it as what resource object. How compiler
software knows this is autoclosable object that is allowed here or it is not autocloable object. It is not allowed
here. For that it will check what there is a interface called autocloable.
Autoclosable. If this class is a subclass of autoclosable interface, then
it is allowed. For example, if I write here string S1 equal to double quotes hurry, is it allowed or not allowed? Not
allowed because string is not a autocloable type and close method is not available in this class to close the
connection. So finally, what did you understand? Uh autoclosable is a interface. A object which is deriving
from autoclosable is called resource object and that object can be used inside try block. Now the question sir I
have object already available outside outside of the try block I already have
the object sir can I use that object as a resource just by writing fw up to java
8 version it is not allowed again repeating if you are using java 8 version I have already object outside of
the tri block and inside directly I'm using fw as a resource then compiler throw error if you are writing java 8
version the syntax X is a compile time error. Then how to solve this problem? For solving this problem, you should
write one local variable. A file writer file writer FW1
FW1 equal to FW. Like this you have to write which version seven and 8 from
Java 9 version onwards. Try with resource we got enhancement. What the enhancement directly? You can write FW
not a prop. All points understand. So repeat repeating again the points up to
Java 6 version if you want to deal with the resources objects first you declare
the variable outside by assigning null inside block create the object and assign to that variable in the catch
block catch exception in finally block you call close method calling close method inside finally is
the common code to all resources objects then some micro system decided avoiding
writing this finally block by developer and they won't write automatically by compiler. For that one new feature
called file sorry try with resource concept is introduced. What the syntax for try with resource? Try parenthesis
resource object. How compiler software knows is it a resource object contain the connection or not? The class which
is implementing autoclosable interface is a resource object. It definitely is a
close it definitely is a connection oriented object connection based object and it definitely contain close method.
So that on this object end of the try block compiler can place finally block
and compiler can call close method. From Java 7 version onwards whenever you are dealing with resources object will you
follow Java 6 style Java 7 styler. Java 7 style. Java 7 style means try open
bracket or type try parenthesis. Uh in JDBC how many resources object in
a single program we will create minimum three. What are the three connection statement results set? Then where you
create these three objects like in old style declare outside with null and using create inside array. No directly
we will write try parenthesis connection object semicolon statement object semicolon result set object semicolon
then parenthesis close open bracket. Then inside
uh what do you call try block then we'll use result set for reading the data and catch the exception SQL exception.
That's it. Finally block will write or will not write. Will not write. Null handling. Will you write or will not write? Will not write.
Now tell me now Java code version by version simplifying or not. That is the
advantage of Java new versions. So uh I hope all the people understand this try with resource. Uh I wanted to ask you
one small question. Please try to obser
question. I lost
and let's see is this program compiled or not. Look at there. Compile successfully.
Right. Next I'm going to ask you a small question. Test 23.
Uh what the use of system.out
System.out is meant for connecting to the console for writing data. Now we have a class called print stream. This
print len method available which class print stream class. Print stream ps
equal to new print stream of
system.out. What the meaning of the statement? File writer FW equal to new file writer
of a abc.txt like that like that uh print stream PS
equal to new print stream of system.out
that means print stream object has created a connection to whom console
then here I'm writing ps dot ps dot print I'm not using system.out.print
print ln instead of that I'm writing ps.print ln hello world is there any
compile time error no very important topic control 1 compile
cannot find symbol I have to add what import java dot io save it control 1
control Look at that I got output hello world now up to now what you have written
system.out system do can I also write like this yes print stream is a connection connected to what console and
then ps.printer printer and hello world. Okay. Okay. Okay. Everyone understand?
After usage completed, what I want to do? Close the connection. Did you close
the connection? No. I want to close connection. What should I do? Call the close method. ps close.
Oh, from Java 7 version onwards, will you call close method? No. Now what I
write parentheses semicolon remove open
bracket uh write this logic closed bracket everyone tell is it compiled or
not compiled come on that's what if you want to say
compile or not compile previous class knowledge is required I have written only try after try I didn't write catch
I didn't write finally what do you remember can I write only try. No
compiler will throw error. Try without catch or finally or
uh understand your error. You only ask uh finally or resource
is a try with resource available now. Error. No error. No error.
Look no error. Come back without catch without finally. How can I
write try? That is a try without catch without finally. Try with the final year.
It is a try with finally. When I write try with the parentheses, what the meaning of this statement?
Uh what the meaning of this statement? This enter code.
With this enter code, compiler software will write what? Print stream.
PS= to null. Try open bracket. PS= to new. Print
stream of system dot of ps dot print len
of double quotes hello world.
Okay. Close try uh then what it will write finally open bracket closed
bracket. Uh what it write? Try uh it will not write try catcher. It will
write directly uh if ps if ps not equal
to null uh what do you write ps dot close
map it will not write try catch it will write only finally null handling and ps
dot close that's it finally tell me these two lines background compiler converting as this much big line before
java 7 version who has to write the center code tumu Okay from Java 7 onwards who is writing
compiler right people understand really paka lock
prove that prove that here compiler has written finally block like this now I am
writing system outprint ln hello world
now tell me is that hello world printed or not printed
Printed. Printed or not printed?
Come on. Come on. World.
You never take your own decision to move. Somebody will say okay
will not print. Why?
only hello world will come. Hello world will not come. Why? Print stream ps equal new print system.out
print stream is connected to system.out connection. System.out connection
connected to console. When you call PS close is only PS closed internal
connections also closed. If you stop the tap water at a root at
the fifth floor I stop the tap. That means only in the fifth floor tap stopped complete flow stopped complete
flow is closed. Am I right? Uh so tell me try with resource is nothing but try
with finally with close method call. Everyone understand try with resource.
Uh what is the Java 9 new feature? Uh in Java 9 new feature. For example, if this
line is already available in the previous line from Java 9 version
onwards, I can directly write PS here. Uh what is this feature? Java 9 version
improvement. Java 9 version improvement. Everyone
understand? Really paka this concept is clear. uh based on this topic we have I
I have found and prepared 10 rules for you to understand already I explained
the rules also but I want you prepare yourself will you prepare
exception handling Java 7 new features
the entire notes I'm uploading
read and English.
Okay. Try with resource. Java 7 new features. Try with resource
catch with multiple exception. Try with resources. Try with resource is a Java 7 new feature using try with resource. It
means with this new feature. This feature is this feature. Try with resources. Try with resources statement
is a try statement that declares one or more resources. A resource is an object
that must be closed after the program is finished with it. The try resources statement ensures that each resource is
closed at end of the try state. When I can say something is the resource an object that implements
java.lang.utoclosable interface either directly or indirectly can be used as resource. Try with
resource syntax. What object is allowed here? Auto closable. And then what logic you write?
Regular. Note if you create try block with resource object after try block. We
no need to uh we no need to place catch or finally
blocks because compiler will place finally block internally. Uh sample code with a try with resource to display data
on console by using print stream. Print stream. After print stream system.out out print after try with resource will
printed or not printed not printed why because already system dot closed
here I gave here I gave up to Java 6 version the
code we are writing like this from Java 7 version onwards we are writing code like this
no finally block next up to Java 6 JDBC code we are writing like this.
Okay, we writing JDBC code like this. Once again actually this is a wrong design code
for saving the space I have written but it is a wrong design. One second.
In advanc generally we will write like this. This is a wrong design because if rs.clo rise exception then statement
connection will not be closed enough. So we have to write
try catch for each close method call separately.
We should not write common cash flow. And again
in advance people will write only one try catch. But in your notes don't write
one try catch. You write separate try catch. Okay. Try catch for first clause.
Try catch for second clause. Try catch for third clause. This is a good program. And then now tell me this much.
Sorry. Correct. Finally blunt. Uh from J see how much
code we have written for Java 7 Java 6 version. In Java 6 version how much code
we have written? this much extra code we read it's the
year we declare outside and we are writing finally but Java 7
code completely we avoid so this knowledge is very very important and
then uh here when is a try with resource always useful no when we cannot use try
with resource if you want to use the connection object after try catch then we have to use we should not use a try
with resource uh then one example I given connection based I mean uh this is called what
transaction based transaction management based okay in advance you will understand this uh now here I gave rules
and private resource totally how many rules are there 10 rules these are 10 rules
notes and 10 rules I'm uploading and also I will give you the program on try
with resource practice at home will practice at home.
If you don't practice, who will fail?
We will fail. I will also fail along with you.
You know, I always used to work in my childhood. I always used to study for my
parents and for my teachers. Okay. After getting job, I'm working
very hard 24 by7 even at home available to you for the with WhatsApp also for my
family. No, I'm literally waiting for when I can work for myself.
Okay, maybe in voltage. So we people should always work for the
people who are depending on us. Your parents and your teacher depending
on your success. You have to work hard. And next after get marriage your
children's and your wife and husband depending on
your success. So again you have to start work for them.
If you don't work you are going to fail. That's very very important. Uh now tell me second feature. All you people
understand try with resource is the syntax comfortable to you. Uh now let us try to understand the next feature.
Multiple catch multi catch with multiple exceptions. You remember one try after
one try we can write multiple catch blocks. Whenever you're writing multiple catch blocks there is a chance that some code
will be repeated. uh if some code is repeating why are you writing again and again? It is a code
renance. Then in Java 7 version some micro system has provided one new syntax
single catch with multiple exceptions. Then if you write multiple exceptions in
single catch they become parameters. How many arguments can come to the catch block at a time? Two exceptions can come
like methods. No. If array index out of bounds exception rises in the try block is there any chance immediately number
format also rise? No. Either number or array then what is the syntax of catch?
Catch either array index out of bounds exception or number of format exception.
What the syntax? First exception or second exception. Then how many parameter names I have to write? Only
one. inside this parameter either array index autobon exception object is stored or number format exception object is
stored clear my point then following by in the catch block uh I have another
exception which is having different logic then write that normal catches also as you like then are there any
rules we must follow while working with catch block yes what the rules number one we must separate separate separator
must be r not double r and comma. Next, we must use only single parameter name.
Two parameter names are not allowed. Exception class must be only siblings must not super and subasses. Number
format exception exception not allowed. Understand my point? So these are the three rules you have to follow while
working with catch with multiple exceptions.
And this is the notes for catch with multiple exceptions. Let me also
so requesting you all practice try with resource and the program template is
very important. What the program template already that notes also given in the same file. The programs whatever
type everything is available here. The program template is this one. Always.
This is the program template.
One second. Sir, the saved file not appear.
I'll upload one more time. File is not saved.
Now, so three points we learn. Number one, the template of the exception
handling program. So this is the template. Try declare
variables. Try catch finally with each of on each object close method. And then
this big code is decreased to the small. So this is the template. Okay. So that's
all for exceptional chapter and that's all for today class.
So by tomorrow coming will you all practice and come?
Exception handling will revise exception handling chapter last pages. I gave one project
on object oriented programming bank application. Will you try that example
by your own ones? First you try also I will explain but I want you try
first yourself. The reason in company the big projects the entire project code
who has to understand yourself has to understand. So take it as an advantage. So just refer that
program. Totally three programs are there. Just refer that program and what concepts are involved there. Why I
designed the program like that? Just you analyze yourself and if you find any difficulty ask me tomorrow I'll explain.
Anyways that project I have to explain the coming classes. Okay. So you try first yourself and get some doubts to
your mind that will be good for your brain and tomorrow I'm going to start the next chapter multi-threading.
Okay. Now with this we completed exceptionally every point in the material I explained and also explain
the new features also explain the project. I done my job and it's up to you how much you practice and remember
and this exceptional chapter object- oriented programming abstraction interface abstract class overriding
method runtime polymorphism flow of execution calling the method searching super class executing from subclass
these topics I need in multi-threading chapter multi-threading chapter is the
sun micro systemystem developed project multi-threading chapter is the sun micro
systemystem developed project on object oriented programming and exception handling that's why today you practice
the project from the material tomorrow multi-threading chapter will be easy for you clear my point so don't miss
practice tomorrow multi- threading chapter will start multi-threading chapter will take around 4 days okay
multi- threading chapter tomorrow Wednesday Thursday already Thursday came in this much past
week is complete reading. Okay, no problem. Tomorrow uh up to Sunday. Sunday also we have class
no holiday. uh remember this Sunday if morning session if unable to take I will
take night or evening class night class I will take online you have to come not
offline offline I cannot ask the admin to come so you have to support last three and a half months I'm not taking
Sunday classes at least by end of the weeks you have to come and last time when you go to holidays or when you go
for you know elections you attended class online that time no problem
because it's your problem. Now if I ask come to online then you will say offline
no online I will not go no problem on Sunday you can adjust okay the by this Sunday we have to complete
multi-threading chapter and next Monday we have to start uh string handling IO
stream chapter we have to learn okay and after string handling IO streaming completed then we should learn uh what
do you call Java 8 new features array and collections with the collections we will complete our syllabus clear my
point So more 15 days to 20 days I required to complete our remaining syllabus. Maximum 20 days maximum 20
days okay June 1st week or second week maximum by June 2nd week we'll complete
and Sundays here onwards every Sunday I will take class either offline or online. So if possible to take offline
100% I will try to take offline if at all because my son always also come to
end he will beat me if you don't take him out. Last few days I am escaping from him saying outside lot of heat is
there but now it's become cool he's looking at my face now what about now shall I go out or not okay so I have to
take care of him also if morning sessions not possible we have to take the class at night okay online class we
have to conduct so let me know I will let you know that okay thank you that's all for today class
please take slowly now today how many topics we completed Laxmi Okay. Only two
topics I completed.
So then still if you say I'm going fast uh please stop coming to the course or
buy the recorded classes. Okay. Now by recorded classes after going to home
you do revision. Please don't blame me because of your slowness.
I explain only two topics today. Please don't tell your problems to me.
really awkward to me.

