ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Last class we completed exception
handling and also completed IDE. Uh today we need to start multi-threading.
But today I don't want to take multi-threading. Monday onwards we'll start. Today I want to start small
chapter IBO streams. We can learn Java library in any order.
Okay, we can learn Java library chapters in any order. So what are the chapters
are there in Java library? First we should know about
uh object class. There is a predefined class called object object class.
And the second you should know wrapper classes. Third you should know exception
handling. And the fourth you should know multi-threading.
Multi- threading. Fifth you should know string handling. And sixth you should
know IO streams. Seventh you should know
Java 8 new features.
And 80 should know generics. And 90 should know collections.
And
last topic stream AB. So these are the topics we have. So in
that we completed exception handling and you can learn these 10 topics in any
order. there is no uh order okay we need to follow this order only not required
so after exception handling now we are trying to understand IO streams it's a small chapter so today tomorrow we can
complete tomorrow we have class and tomorrow class is morning 9:00 a.m. And I'll take only online. You must join
online class. Okay. Offline I cannot come. So please join online. So as much time as I can take I will take. So not
well. So not in a position to speak much. So tomorrow how much time I can take that much time I will take. So 9 I
will start the class and 9 to as much time I can continue as much time you can
continue. So depending on your energy my energy. So tomorrow class is only online. So join online. Okay.
Understand these are the topics we have to complete. These are the 10 topics we have to complete as part of Java
library. First of all you should know what is library. What is library?
Predefined classes where these predefined classes available in Java package and Java X package. Java library
is divided into two packages. Sun micros systemystem predefined classes are divided into two packages Java and Java
X. In Java again we have sub packages. Language related all classes are
available in lang package. These five chapters comes under lang package.
Okay. These five chapters comes under java.lang package. And next we have
another package called IO. IO. IO package is meant for talking to
files. If you want to store a data inside file, you want read data from the file, you should use IO streams chapter.
Okay. And next we have another package called collections. Sorry, util. We have
another package called util. Under util package. Okay. Java 8 most of the
features Java 5 most of the features are given per collections chapter only. So
all these chapters comes under what? Util package. So totally how many packages you have to learn? Two
packages. Java under Java Java Java X. So Java library divided into two
packages. Java Java library. Under Java we have the main package lang. And also
we have the another important package called what? IO and also we have another
important package called util. So as part of core Java you should learn these are the three packages. Java. Java.io,
Java. And other packages we have SQL package java.sql
java time. These two packages you will learn in advanced java jdbc. Java x.
Serlet java x.jsp you will learn in serlet advanced java
serlet and jsp. So in advanc we will learn three four packages. Java.sql
java. Time java x. Java x.http
java x server related jsp. So now in core java we are trying to understand
java.lang package. In that we completed exception handling part. Now we are
going to the next chapter actually multi- threading I have to teach but uh now I'm holding it. Monday we will
discuss because in the middle I don't want gap. So now I package I'm starting that is IO streams. It's a small
chapter. IO stream chapter here we are learning how to create a file, how to
delete the file, how to create directory, how to delete directories, you will learn and following by how to
read data inside from the file, how to write data to the file that is called IO
operation. File IO, okay, file creation and file IO. File IO means what? Storing
data inside file, reading data from the file. I means input, O means output,
storing, reading. Uh next, next also we learn serialization. Serialization means
storing, reading. But what you are storing object, student object, employee object, bank account object, objects you
want to store, objects you want to read. Then what I should use serialization. So fileo means just normal data, numbers,
string, numbers and string you are storing and reading. we call it as fileo object a class object or array object
you are storing and reading then we call it as what serialization so uh now we have to start this topic first we are
trying to understand file IO then we will understand serialization then we will understand file creation and file
deletion okay let's start next I want to share you
So, Java library whatever explanation I gave these details are available
I prepared one uh video for your reference purpose because many people
are forgetting so that's why I prepared video I whatever I have explained same there's
no new If you want to refer, refer at home. One
more time.
I was steam chapter complete notes is available.
I'm not going to give you any notes notes programs everything is available.
I will explain everything but refer material from here.
in volume 2 textbook. Okay.
Okay. In material drive refer page number 119 onwards.
So I was stream chapter here what are learning in this chapter you will learn storing and reading binary and text data
from a flat file. Flat file means text file. Storing and reading primitive data from a flat file. Storing and reading
objects from a flat file. Serialization and deserialization. Different ways to create objects in Java. Logical
concatenation of the streams. Default streams created in JVM. Importance of print stream class. Clear understanding
on system.out.print. printm reading data from keyboard. Introduction to reader and writer classes. Importance of buffer
reader class. Creating and deleting files and directories from the program. By end of this chapter, you will be in a
position to perform file based persistence operations. Persistence means storing data permanently. Okay.
Now, as part of this chapter, these are the different points we have. Binaries, these are the common points. Common
points need of this chapter. What is a stream types of streams? Stream creation in Java. Then binary streams. On binary
stream these operations we can perform character streams. There are two types of streams. Binary streams and character
streams. Okay. Then this first page is not previewing.
page number 119. Now first what you have to understand
what is a stream. IO streams. IO means what? Input and output. Then next what
is a stream? So far you have learned how to create a data, how to store data, how
to store data in variables. In this chapter you will learn how to store data in files permanently. Tell me now I'm
creating one program here. This is my program. In this program
either I create variable or I have created object. Then in this variable I
have stored data some file. In this object I have stored some data 1 HK. Now
tell me how long this file and object how long this variable and this object
is available until this program is running. Once the program execution is
completed and terminated on this program is executed and terminated then this
data and this I mean this variable memory object memory is destroyed or not
the variable object created in the program as part of JVM is temporary.
Once the program execution completed, JVM is destroyed. Once the JVM is
destroyed, variable and object memories are gone. Then the values are also lost.
I don't want to lose my data. For example, I am taking admission inside Narish id. Now a student object is
created. Tomorrow you are coming back to the class and saying that already took admission for core java. want to
continue and tell me admin will allow you not allow because data loss your
information is not available with us then what we say again you take admission every day will you take
admission is it a good idea bad idea then what should we do whatever the data
we collected from you and stored in the student object in Java program the data must be stored permanently where inside
a file or inside a database so tell You are writing Java application or Java
software. You are writing Java application or a software to establish communication between end user to
database or file. For storing data permanently and reading data from the
persistence media means files and database. So storing and reading data permanently purpose only we are
developing what application. So tell me I have Amazon application. Amazon background database is there or not and
front end who is there end user. Then what is the job of this application? Ask
the user what you want. Go to database collect it and display. Ask the user
what you want store. Go to database and store. So from the seller point of view,
from the vendor point of view, seller or vendor point of view, what operations are doing? Storying. From the end user
or buyer, end user or buyer point of view. What are you doing? Reading the
products available in the database and showing to the end user. Whenever he wanted to buy, we are selling to this
end user. So this is the purpose. So the application Java application, net
application nothing but a project or a software is meant for creating a media a
communication media between end user and persistence medias. So in Java we can
store our data permanently either in the file or in the database. To store data inside the file I have to use a package
called what? IO. For storing data in database we have to use a package called what? SQL. Uh the IO package API is
called stream API. What we call stream API. The the the SQL package is called
JDBC API. Stream API we are learning core Java. JDBC API we will learn in
advanced Java. So final target is what? In this chapter we are learning storing
data in files permanently. Then what is the what the need of this chapter? The
basic idea of IO stream chapter is storing and reading data from the files and also reading data from keyboard. So
by using IO stream chapter I can perform two operation storing and reading from
where? Files and keyboard. Sir, we read data from the keyboard by using scanner. Now, sir, scanner internally using what?
Buffer reader. Scanner internally using what? System.ind read. System.ind read
is a input stream object connected to the console. So, uh connected to the keyboard. So, IO stream chapter only
providing the API for reading data from the file and for reading data from the keyboard. Uh in this chapter we cover
methods required to handle files and directories and also for methods for
writing data to different destinations reading data from different sources. Tell me if you want to write data or you
want to read data I need to develop logic or not that logic uh is changing
from one developer to another developer. No all developers has to write same logic for writing same logic for
reading. When the same logic writing by the users then who has to write that code? Sun micro systemystem. Sun micro
systemystem has developed two methods. One method for writing one method for reading and given to us. Then what as a
developer we have to do I must create method again. I must create object and call the method
create object and call method. So what are those methods? We have to learn. Next, this chapter also show you the
object serialization mechanism and lets you store objects and easily as you can
store text and numeric data in the files. Actually if you want to store object inside a file lot of complexity
is there huge amount of logic you have to write but Java people has provided a abstract layer. Abstract layer means
what completely your task is hidden from you. Abstract layer is provided by just
one method declaration. Call this method your object will be saved in the fire. Call this method your object will read
from the fire. How it is writing? How it is reading? The internal mechanism you don't need to worry about it. All is
taken care by some micro system. Before starting this chapter you should remember four terminology. Persistence
media persistence persistence logic persistence technologies. So totally how
many words are there? Four words. Persistence persistence persistence persistence. So what is the meaning of
persistence? Persistence means the process of storing data permanently.
In a persistence media is called persistence.
The process of persisting data permanently. In a persistence media is
called persistence. All places we have only one word persistence. Persistence. Persistence.
Persistence is nothing but storing data permanently where in file or in
database. Then what is persistence media? The environment a place that
allows us to store data permanently is called persistence media. We can store
data permanently in three places file database and remote computer. Remote
computer is nothing but server computer. That server computer is also called what? Socket. Socket is nothing but
network computer. Uh next what is persistence? What is the persistence logic? Logic is a logic. What this logic
is performing persistence operation. The logic that persist data in a persistence
media is called persistence logic. For example, IO streams based logic, JDBC,
JDBC based logic, networking based logic is called what? Persistence logic.
Persistence technologies. The technology that provides API to developing
repeating again the technology that provides API to develop persistence
logic is called persistence technology. again IO stream, JDBC, EJB, hibernate
all these are comes under what persistency technologies uh in real time
project the basic operation that we do using this chapter is not business logic is
not presentation logic what logic we will develop persistence logic in
project every project is divided into three parts I told you number one UI
number two programming Number three what database. In programming we have two
logics are there. Number one controlling logic. Number two storing logic. So there are totally three logics we are
going to develop. UI logic. Number two business logic. Number three persistence
logic. This UI logic is also called presentation logic. Store showing
something and reading something from the user is called what? Presentation logic. Taking that lo taking the input from the
presentation logic perform some validations and calculations and generate result is called what business
logic and giving that inputs to the inputs and outputs to the logic that logic store data permanently in the
database or in the file is called what persistence logic. So tell me core Java
is meant for developing which logic business logic using core Java can I develop presentation logic? Yes, by
using scanner. Uh, can Porjava develop persistence logic?
Yes, by using chapter, IO streams chapter. By using IO stream chapter and
file, by using IO stream chapter and file, we can develop present a persistence logic. A complete project we
can develop by using core Java. But you should know which topic we have to use at what time. So core Java data types,
operators, control flow statements, object- oriented programming means logical programming plus object-
oriented programming plus exception handling. These three chapters are meant for developing business logic. Scanner
is meant for developing presentation logic. IO stream chapter collections. IO
stream chapter plus collections plus and file. IO stream chapter plus collections
for a file meant for developing persistence logic. So we have we have
completed presentation logic. We have completed business logic. Now we are trying to understand persistence logic.
Uh then tell me how can we store data or result permanently in persistence medias
either in files or in database. Okay. If you want to store data inside a file or
inside a database I need connections to the file and database or not those file
is available within the JVM outside JVM outside JVM. Then tell me how can we
store how can we store data inside a file? For storing data inside a file I must create one connection. This
connection is technically called what? Stream. So what is a stream? Uh how can
Java application store or read data from a file? Answer is what? By using stream.
Okay. Tell me this is your house and this is your tank. Water tank. Now in
the water tank we have water. I want to get that water to my house. Then tell me
a no. What you have to do? You must construct, you must create one pipe
connection. This pipe connection in Java is called what? Stream. This tank is
nothing but what file and your house is nothing but Java application Java
program. Everyone understand? So what is a stream? A stream is a logical connection between Java program and a
file. Logical connection. Why I'm calling it as a logical? Logical means can you see Wi-Fi connection is a
logical connection or physical connection? Logical connection. Broadband is
logical connection. Broadband broadband is a wire connection. Wire connection is
what? Physical connection. Wi-Fi is logical connection. Wireless connection.
Right? Uh so a stream is a connection. Connection is there between the file and Java application. We have connection but
we cannot see. Then what the purpose of this logical connection to store data in a persistence media. There should be a
way to connect to persistency media from Java application either physically
logically. Stream provides uh what connection logical connection. So what I
can also say stream can be defined as it is a continuation flow of data between
Java program and persistence media. Okay. Tell me now I am take I'm giving
you one pipe. I'm giving you one pipe to you. Tell me this pipe is meant for
taking water from the tank or filling the water in the tank.
This pipe is used for storing water in the pipe or taking water sorry storing water in the tank or taking water from
the tank. Taking water from the tank. Huh?
Both storing water and waste. How can we store? How can you read? By using pipe
only. So what is the answer? Both. For both purpose we will use this pipe. And
now answer my question. This pipe you connected to the tank for storing water.
Uh then tell me what this pipe is. What this pipe is called? Inputter outputter.
Output. Who is storing this data? Java application Java application is sending
the data to store inside a file then what we call it as output data going out
from the Java program to the file that's why what we call it as output stream next now from the same stream can I take
can I take the data back no using the same pipe you can store water
take water thinker
Same pipe can use for filling the tank and take the water from the tanker. No,
you'll have one more connection pipe for taking the water.
tank here is closed here. Uh from the well, this is well somewhere available.
From the well, you give the pipe connection to this tank.
Uh when you start motor, okay, then what happen? Water available
in the well is pouring into
tank. Tank is now filling. Then motor stop. Then later from this
tank down we have one more pipe connection is there into your kitchen.
Uh tell me this pipe connection is what? For taking water. Same pipe connection
can I use for storing and reading? That's what I'm asking. So I have Java
application and the file. I have one pipe connection created to the file.
From the same pipe connection, can I both do operation storing and reading? No. One pipe connection required for
storing. Another pipe connection required for reading. So the stream
the stream through which we are storing data inside a file is called what?
Output stream. Okay. The pipe connection we created
from the file to Java application for reading data from the file is called
output stream input stream. Input stream. So tell me how many streams Java
provided? Two types of streams. Number one, input stream and output stream. That's
why the chop is named as IO input output. Uh tell me how many lines of
code you are developing in this chapter. You created your class class main
method. From the main method I want write data into the file. How many lines
I have to write here? Any lines?
Very simple. From the well to the tank one connection you create. After that
what you do automatically water going from the well to the tank. What are you doing?
Start the motor. Start motor. Right. How many operations you did?
Two operations. That's all. Then you are leaving that motor like that. What you do after what? After
motor is I mean after tank fill what are you doing? Stop. Stop means what? Close.
So totally how many lines of code you have to develop in your Java program for writing data into the file.
See number one create connection. Number two
start connection start motor and water writing water
sending water storing water in the tank. Uh so tell me first one is what? Create
connection. Second one write data store data nothing but write data after
writing completed close connection. First one create connection write data
close connection. IO stream chapter completed
IO chapter topic. I wanted to after writing data I develop
one more Java program here class main method. Uh inside this class my target
is reading data. Uh for reading data what you do in your house from the tank
to your kitchen you created one connection whenever you want water. What are you doing? Release the tap and then
after your binder filled water water kettle water kettle filled what are you
doing? Close the tab. Any how many operations here also? Three. First create the
connection. After that read data after reading
program complete complete.
I want to write data. Which data? Text data. Three lines. I want to write
primitive data integer longlow to wcap. Another three
lines I want object uh another three lines and I want to
write normal data just data take the data and write data write as a normal data then write method what name I want
to write primitive data what you want write primitive data how many primitive datas we have eight first
one is what do you want right bite me Write
by I want right short. I want to translate double quotes 10 to 10. Which
method you have used? Parse parse parse by
par short par in parallel. Par float like that.
Right. In right by
right by
write double right car. Write car is also available. Write care write boolean and my string
I want write string boolean plus string also write string but string you write
in a uni code format UTF uni code transfer format UTF what name write UTF
I want write data normal data then what I should write data not as a special format write data as a data then what
method I should use Write right right bite right short right in right long
right float right double right care right boolean write UTF how many right
methods available those many
what you want to do in this chapter only writing and leaving are writing and reading uh as many write available
those many reader read by read in Read read short read in
read long read double read boolean read utl
object I want write object how can I write object
these many methods I told guess one method write object you want write in
method name is what write in I want write object what the method name write object read
i In chapter how many methods count first one write?
Eight methods. Eight methods. Nine. Uh one more method.
Write a object and these 10 methods if you remember I was stream
where these 10 methods are available. These 10 methods are available in three classes.
Okay. These 10 methods are available in how many classes? Three classes. First class. What I want? I want write data to
your file. This right operation performing stream is called what?
Check maj
output stream. In childhood hello world program we develop a program called
what? Printing name. What the name of the class we chosen? Printer. What you
want to print name? Name of the class word name printer. Similarly
file output stream. Uh file input stream. File output stream
contain write method. File input stream contain read method. Next file output stream class. File in stream class are
just pipes. Tap. Tap and pipe connection provided from the tank to your kitchen.
Pipe connection with the tap is provided. Then tell me is this pipe and tap will filter the test particles
coming from the tank. No you you clean your tank almost it become four five
months then wonderful grainary grainery is prepared in the tank. No is that grainary particles are stopped by your
pipe and tap. No they're also flowing but you don't want what will you do?
You will add filter. Filter is removing a adding.
Correct. Come on. Filter is what? It is removing dust particles but it is adding
extra capabilities to the tap. No tap cannot filter. Tap cannot stop. So
because it is unable to stop. What are you doing? You are adding the filter to stop and clean the water. That means can
I say filter adding extra capabilities to the existing the tab for filtering
the water for stopping the unwanted. Is it really removing a stopping a filter
will not remove it will stop uh it will stop and accumulate all the dust
particles in the filter. So after one month completed what are you doing? You are cleaning it right? Uh if it is
removing and making a you know missing there then why you are cleaning every month? Why you are changing the filters
every three months? Everyone understand? So what is the filter cap? Filter functionality. Filter
is not meant for removing. Filter is meant for adding extra capabilities to
existing pipe and for stopping unwanted content.
Uh now in IO stream chapter also we have filter and tabs. Observe this is my
Java. Okay this is my file and this is my Java application. From
the Java application I want to write data. What method I have to call? Write
method. Listen carefully. Whenever you are writing data the data by default
will send from the stream. You know if you want to send any data out of your computer via wire the data can go only
in what format? Binary format zeros and ones only binary data zeros and ones
only will travel via network. Not only network via stream also. If any data
going out of your application the data should go in what format? Zeros and
ones. Uh by default zeros and ones are formed as minimum one byte data. How
many bytes? One bite. So tell me write method will write how many bytes of data
at a time? One bite. Suppose if I give 9 or if I give 10, if I give 11, if I give
5,000, any data you give to the right method, right method will write this data in how many bytes size? one by so
right method convert 9 as a one bite data and that one by data is storing
inside the file understand the point uh so tell me I
want to store data inside a file at a time how many bytes of data I can store
one by then now I am taking another program here this program want to read
data from the file for reading data from the file I have to create output schema input schema
input stream. Now the data coming from the file all bytes at a time or one bite
at a time. What is the method I have to call here? Read. Read method can read
and return only one bite data. So tell me by default output stream and input
stream can write and read how many bytes of data? One bite data. Tell me file
input stream file output stream have a limitation that it can write and read
only one bite data. This is Java writer application and this is Java reader
application. Java writer application. Java reader application and this is what
file. So tell me if you want to write data more than one bite. Everyone tell
me if you want to store 97 as a integer number how many bytes this 97 store as
one by four bytes four bytes but right method can store only how many bytes of
data one by this 97 can store only as how many bytes of data one byt but I
want to store how many bytes four bytes data to store four bytes data to this
file output string I need to add some extra capabilities are not that extra
capabilities are added to the stream by using one class called what? Data output
stream. What the class name? Uh so tell me if I use file output
stream class I can write data only one bite at a time. If you connect to this
file output stream extra what is that data output stream then I can write how
many bytes of data? Primitive data size bytes. What data? Primitive data size
bytes. Tell me write method. File output stream contains only one method. What is that one method? Write uh tell me data
output stream class contain how many methods? Eight methods. Not eight methods plus one. Nine methods. What are
nine methods? Uh write by data stored as a one bite. For example, if you call 97
by passing 97 right by 97 stored in one bite. If I call right short of 97 two
bytes, write int of 97 four bytes. Write long eight bytes. Are you following? So
you want to write the data in how many bytes that based on that method you have to call. So tell me totally how many
methods you are learning in iOS chapter? 10 methods. First method is what?
Write it can write data only in one bite. Second method is what? Write byte
to write UTF. write byte to write UTF. Uh they can write data one by primitive
data size bytes primitive data size bytes it will store. Then now my program
wanted to store big object to store object where you want to store file. So
what object I have to create file output stream but file output stream contain what is the method write method. Write
method can write object one by data one by to write one object on top of foss I
have to create one more object called what o what object
what the full of o object output stream array primitive
data you want right that's why name of the class what data output stream you
want write what object so what you have to use the class name object output stream. So totally how many class names
you have to remember? Three. Three pairs. Three pairs. Now first one
file output stream. File input stream. Second one
data output stream. Data input stream. Next one
object output stream. Object input stream. Uh interviewer asked the question. What the purpose of file
output stream? Mobile input string for storing and reading. For storing and
reading data how many bytes? One byte size for writing and reading data one by
size in file. Next what the use of dois
for writing and reading data in primitive sizes.
Primitive sizes. Primitive sizes. Next. What the use of OIS and OIS? Object
output stream and object input stream for storing and reading data. Which
data? Object for writing and reading object data. Nothing but for performing
serialization and des serialization. If remember six classes and 10 methods
kam this chapter is completed. The diagram shows storing result 30 in a flat file. What is the direction of the
flow? Tell me this stream flow is towards the filer towards the Java
application. It's it is a depends type of the stream. We have two types input
stream and output stream. If a data coming into the Java application we call
it as what? Input stream. If data going out from the Java application is called what? Output stream. So how many types
of strings we have? Two types of strings. What the two types? Binary streams and character streams. Binary
streams again divided into two types. Binary input stream, binary output stream. Character streams also again
divided into two types. Character input stream, character output stream.
Everyone sleeping. Open eyes and sleeping. I know you know you are Brahman.
Open eyes and sleep. And tell me Java. Java supports how many types of streams?
Two types. What the two types? binary strings and character strings. I want to write a primitive value or object or a
image. I want to write a primit a car a primitive value or object or as image.
So these three data is in the format of what binary then we have to use what
binary strings and zeros and ones format. I want to write a text data one
text file big text file I want write your name course name text data you want your biography you want write then what
I have to use characters uh character streams are not available from the beginning version JDK 1.0 zero they're
available from 1.1 tell me by using binary streams can I write text data also yes but some text content it is
unable to properly convert that's why people has introduced what character stream so tell me totally how many types
of strings are there four streams what the four streams binary input stream binary output stream character input
stream character output stream so tell me what is a stream a stream is a logical connection between a Java
application ation and the file. It is used for writing and reading data. We
have two types of streams are there. Binary streams and character streams. Binary streams are used for writing and
reading binary data such as uh numbers, numbers, objects and image files. Uh
character streams are used for reading and write writing and reading text data.
You won't write a normal string data or a big file text file data. You have to use what? Character streams. Binary
streams are again divided into two types. Input streams and output stream. Input stream is used for reading data
from the file. Output stream is used for writing data to the file. Next
characteristics also divide into two types.
Reader writer. What is that? Reader writer. Uh character input stream is
called reader. Direct output stream is called a what? Right? What are the different sources and destinations? We
have several sources and destinations. Based on the several sources and destinations, we have super class.
Binary input stream is represented by input stream class. Binary output stream is represented by output stream class.
Character input stream is represented by reader. Character output stream represented by writer. So the entire IO
stream is built on four super classes. What the four super classes? Input
stream, output stream, reader, writer. If you go back to our object oriented programming to create super class, we
will use three types of classes. Interface, abstract class, concrete class. I want to declare all operations.
Then interface. I want to declare some of the operations and implement some of the operation. Abstract class. All
operations I want to declare. and concrete class input stream, output stream, radar, writer are abstract
classes. What classes? Abstract classes. Because inside these classes only one
method is not implemented. Remaining all methods are implemented. In input stream
class, reader method, in output stream class, writer method are declared as abstract and forcing subasses to
implement those methods and remaining all methods are implemented. Here uh input stream contain read method. Output
stream contains what? Write method. Why read and write methods are declared as abstract? Because the reading logic
writing logic changing from one source to another source. Then what are the different subasses we have in input
stream? What are the different subasses we have? Output stream. Input stream class have these many subasses. Should
align all these subasses not required. Three classes we have to learn. Number one file input stream class. Number two,
data input stream class. Number three, object input stream class. Remaining classes are not required. Okay, no need
to learn. Then output stream opposite classes. What are they? File output stream class, data output stream class
and object output stream class. And also one important class you have to learn what print stream. So totally four
classes. Here three classes and output stream wise four classes. I repeat once again what are the classes we have to
learn? File input stream, file output stream, data input stream, data output stream, object input stream, object
output stream and print stream. Okay, tell me as many input stream classes we
have those many uh reader and writers also available. Now I want to write text data inside a file. What I should use?
File read. I want read from the file then file reader. I want to write then
file writer. Do you have data reader? data writer. Primitive data is a text or
binary data. Binary data. So there is no data reader. Data writer object is a
binary data. Text data. Binary data. Object is a binary. It's a number. Now
binary data. Binary data. Can you write using reader writer? No. Then tell me from reader and writer. How many classes
we have to learn? Only two. File reader and file writer. And also you have to learn one extra class. That extra class
name is Okay, read and writer I have not mentioned here. Uh we have to learn one
extra class called print buffer reader print writer. Buffer reader and print
writer. So buffer reader purpose I'll tell you. So reader point of we have to learn only four classes. Number one file
reader file writer and next buffer reader print writer. Okay totally four
classes. Okay first let us try to understand input stream and output stream. Tell me input stream class is
providing several methods. Totally how many methods provided? Nine methods provided. Do we need to learn all these
nine methods? Okay. Two three methods you have to learn. Number one, while reading data from the file, I should
know how what is the size of the file. When you right click properties, it is
showing the size of the file. Now that size of the file is nothing but number of bytes. A file size is represented
what? In a number of bytes. Number of bytes. For example, file is contain the
letter A, B, C. How many bytes of file is it? Three bytes. Each letter you are
typing on the keyboard is considered as what? One by suppose in the file I have
100. The number 100. Uh then tell me what is the size of this file?
100 by sir. One by you typed 100 in the
file here. Is there any key called 100 on the keyboard? Uh then
1 0 0. How many times you press the keys? Three times. Then how many how many bytes you typed? Three bytes. 1 0 0
three bytes. Uh each character is considered as what? One bite. For example, I'm typing my
name har. Is there any letter called har on the keyboard?
Huh? Tell me. H A how many characters? Four. H A R I. Okay. Now Raja. How many
bytes are there? Four by. Can I write a hurry directly from the Java program into the file? No. Because Java program
can write only one bite at a time. Huh? And how many times I should call right method now? Four times. Write H, write
A, write R, write A. I don't write I want to call right
method only one times. All four bytes I want. Right. Then do one thing in a in a
data type chapter. I learned something. If you want to store multiple values as a one group, I have to use arena. Now
tell me which array I have to create now to combine all these four bytes as a one array.
Come on here by I am saying which array by array look at there is a method
called write first let me teach you write then I'll come to reader
class contain these are the methods first method is called what write write right write if you want to write the
data into the file I have a method called write I want to write how many bytes only allowed one by the method
parameter is what in Sir why intaken sir why not bite? If you remember data types
I mean method of overloading chapter if you define a method with the bind can I pass five six as a argument to the
method directly no because five is what type int when I write write of five
compiler searching for five as a by five as a int then developer every time has
to use the cast operator by of five write method can write only what range
data byte range data then the method parameter must be What? Bite. But if you
take bite as a parameter, what is the problem? Developer every time has to type cast to what? Bite. To give the
comfort to the user uh to use the to give the comfort to the developer. Write method parameter taken as what? Yield.
Point is clearer. But what range data only we can pass to this write method? Byte range data. What the byte range
data? Minus 128 to 127 only we're allowed to pass. If we pass extra range
any compile time error no any runtime error no while storing the data is the
data as it is stored converted to byte range and stored uh converted to byte
range and stored next I want to store multiple bytes at a time is this right
method support no I have to call this right method multiple times as many bytes as you want store for example I
want to store A I want to store B I want to store C then how many times I should call right method three times I don't
want call three times one time I want to call all three bytes I want to send then first of all make a byte array with
these three bytes by array B1 equal to open bracket single code a comma single
code B comma single quote C create a bite array and pass that byte array to the second write method
catch my point uh so by default file output stream supports us to write how
many how much range of data one bite If you want to pass multiple values, what I have to do? I must create by array. If
you want to write my name, what should I write? I should first of all prepare by array by array name equal to open
bracket single code H comma single code A, single code. I have to write all the
string object as a character. Third, if my string contain 1000 characters, then
writing single code, single code, comma, I will die. That's why in a string class
we have one predefined method to convert this large string into byte array. The
method name is what? Get bytes. What the method name? Get by. Now let us try to work out on this write method. So what
are the two methods we are learning from the output stream? Write and write byte array and remaining methods are not
required. A very important method is there flush method and close method. So tell me write method is the writing data
to whom file outputs. You want write data to file output stream of filer
where where you want to store data. Write method is write data into file output stream piper.
But you want to store water in the piper in the tank tank. Then background there is a pressure in the pipe to push the
water to the tank. Now that pressure is nothing but what flush. If you don't
call this flush method will data saved in the file only available in the pipe. Only available in the pipe. So if you
want if you call write method uh the data will not be saved in the file. The data will be available only in the foss
object. From the foss object you want push the data into the file. I must call what method? Plush.
After your usage is completed I have to close what method I have to call close method. So output stream class contain
totally how many methods? Six methods. Five six five methods. uh three write methods and one flush method and then
what close method among them most of the time we are using what method either write one byte method write multiple
bytes method and flush and close method let me try let's try to write the program everyone tell me if you know the
class name and if you know the method name can you write a program what I should do simply create object of that
class and call that method that's all go to the Eclipse Close this.
Close. Close. Close. Close. Is closer.
Right click. New Java project.
I right click. New class.
package com.hk HK dot streams which is streams
there are two streams are there collection streams and IO streams uh first program test zero writing data
finish uh inside I should write main
uh inside main method what the first statement connected to the file for what purpose reading purpose or writing
purpose Writing for writing purpose. What is the method name? Sorry, what the class?
What the class? File. File output stream. File output stream.
Look at their import statement automatically added. FOS equal to new file output stream. If you want to
create object, you must know the constructors available in the class. Uh how many constructors are available in
the class? File output stream. Four constructors. Okay, first one file parameter file
descriptor string name file boolean append string name boolean append uh tell me now which constructor now you
have to use among this file third one why string name you want to connect to
the file which file you want file name you have to specify then this third construct I'm using double quotes abxt
semicolon so tell me what happened at this line number at this line number.
Our Java program contains file output stream class object that has established
a connection to the abc.txt file.
File output stream class is meant for what? Connecting the connection to the file. Now tell me when you are working
with predefined class, predefined methods, predefined constructors, you
must also take care of exceptions. Pile stream class constructor is throwing one
exception. What is that exception? File not found exception. File not found
exception is a check exception. It is a subclass of exception. You should handle
it. How to handle add throws declaration? Okay, I have added throws declaration.
Then the compile successfully. Tell me here are you reading data, writing data
are connecting to the filer? You connected to the file for writing data. That means pipe connection from
the well to the tank is ready. Then automatically water started flowing from the tank. What I have to do? Start
motor. What is that motor here? F right. How many write methods we have? Three
right methods. Bite array. Byte. Byte array. Which method you want to use? Bite. Uh how many bytes of data? I can
write one by. Now I'm taking that one bite as five. I'm taking that one by
five. Five I want to write. But right method is also throwing an exception. Okay. Write method is also throwing one
exception. Which exception? IO exception. I must handle that IO exception. It is a checkered exception.
Save it. Control shift will handle it. Look at there. Then after writing data system.out print system.out print I'm
writing data is saved. After usage completed I should close. Now close
but I have not called flush method uh also called flush. Flush method call is
optional. Flush method call is optional for IO stream. Flush method call is optional. Write method automatically
will flush the data into the file. Okay. But practice purpose you write flush method also. So how many steps? We have
totally three steps. Step number one connected to the file. Step number two write data. Step number three flush the
data. And step number four uh totally three steps. Number one connect. Number
two write. Number three close. That's all. And now together control F11.
Hey we got output. There is no exception. Did you create abc txt file
in your system? No. But look at there. I didn't get exception. File not found
exception should come when there is no file. But I'm not got but I didn't get exception. Why? Because file output
stream class automatically create empty file. Automatically create empty file
and write the data into that file. Refresh. You will see the file. Look at the file coming.
Uh now tell me into hard disk the file is created. Now this write method
this write method write data into file output stream
object further flush method plus the data into the file. Now the question is
this write me write the data into file output stream as five as five as five as
a one by zeros and ones are in a data types chapter I taught you how
to convert a decimal value to binary value dividing by two two's are four
remainder one two ones are two remainder zero then what is the data 1 0 1 bte
means how many bits Eight bits left side remaining bits are filled with zeros. So totally what is
the data going? Four zeros 0 0 1 0 1. Now this data is flushed into file. So
inside the file what data is available? 0 0
1 0 1. All are sleeping happily. Then tomorrow say class not
understand sir you are taking online sir offline. What are you seeing sir? Sleeping happily unnecessary. I'm
disturbing you in the class. If you attend online what happen? No one will disturb you will be in a deep sleeping
mode. So that by the end class completed. Hello. That's all. Class completed.
Thank you sir. Maya. Okay. Then you wake up from the bed they get up from the bed
and then going to outside moving that side. This side. That's what our behavior as a student when class is
going on. H.
Right. After class completed, relaxed
class complete
feeling that class is not completed, class is not completed. When you're feeling it, why you join? Back up the
backs and go to home. How long you will sit here and cry patch is not completed, class is not
completed. When you feel batch is not completed, class is not completed, why you are continuing, why you are
presenting your brain. Is my question right?
You want Java? Why? You want time pass you want means you have to learn.
Am I asking any extra money for extra days? What is your problem of learning and getting the knowledge?
If I ask extra money, if management saying we are providing after 3 months extra facilities, fan color everything
you pay extra money, are we asking? No,
I am today I'm also not well. Yesterday I tried to take off not in a position.
Today also still I'm not in a position to talk. Do you observe I am pushing my words out
freely I'm not talking I'm stressing lot of stress is there inside I'm pushing the words out today also I can take
leave management already told hurry if you are not well take leave no problem because my services are very important
for them but still I said no problem I'll come as much time as possible I'll take but what you are doing by coming to
the class
do you No back side
feeling shame. for
for
finally tell me what happened in the file. What data is there?
where in a in a hard disk hard disk tell me when you double click
on this abc.txt txt file. This file content is read by operating
system and showing to you. Now there is a software called notepad.
When you open double click on this abc.txt file background what is there
notepad software. Notepad software will read content and display in binary
format. Read and display in text format. Text means characters. The given data is
background converted into asky characters and show it to you. What is
the five asky character? That character will come. What is that question mark? Sir, I
didn't write question mark is coming. That question mark is showing by
who? That question mark is showing by whom our Java programmer notepad. Notepad.
Notepad is showing that question mark. uh listen for your understanding purpose
I'm changing 50 to 97 uh everyone tell me inside file
answer write method storing inside fos object
97 as 97 or as a or as binary data
binary data zeros and ones and then flush method flushing the data into the
file as What into abc.txt in the hard disk data is
available as what? Zeros and ones binary data. How many bytes size?
Eight bytes sir 97 right method can store in how many
bytes? How many bits sir? 8 bits one by
okay now. Now I open this file by double clicking.
Then this file is opened by using which software? This is a notepad software. Notepad
software is writing or reading. Reading. Reading.
Understand what is coming. Uh tell me is our Java program right data as a binary
data. as a binary data and the data is converted as a character and showing to
you by notepad software understand there is a confusion why I'm telling this you
know many trainers lecturers are teaching this topic as ah 97 stored as a
bang what this a is not a this is not written by
java program java program writing data as one bite One bite means what? Zeros
and ones in the hard disk data is available as zeros and ones. One bite. Then who is reading and showing data?
Notepad. Notepad software internally. What it is doing? Uh Notepad also
reading the data as zeros and ones. Okay. One by 8 bits, zeros and ones. And
it is converted this data as what? 97 decimal number. And the decimal number
converted as character and showing that is a conversion processing is available as part of what notepad software
should not confuse when your lecturer is teaching nonsense. You have to realize that is right or wronger.
You should not lose your HK flavor analyzation capacity. When you join advanced Java, Spring Boot and
microervices, you will start seeing lot of cockable stories. I'm telling you when they are explaining the points you
should not blindly accept your target is proving that faculty teaching is wrong
mindset whatever faculty teaching you should not blindly wow no wow what
always you have to keep on have a target today how many mistakes I have to find this faculty explanation
they target that is the target you must have including my class also I am telling some cockable story here. What
is the story? Write method store 97 as zeros and ones here not as a text data.
When data is open by using notepad, it is showing that data as what text data.
I proved it now just proved what I proved five I have written the five is reading here as five as a asy character
that five asy character not there. That's why question mark is showing. Okay. I clearly proved every point in
front of you and I'm showing like this each and every point your faculties has to prove when they say this is a this is
a coding why coding standard explain this is a convention why convention explained if I don't follow coding
standard convention what the problem in advance of a connection con equal to null coding standard you have read I
will remove what happened coding standard convention under ruler suggestion suggestion what you have to
do after going to room you have to prove your faculty wrong for that you have to practice a lot test lot try to get as
many errors as possible from the program that's what I told you from the first day of hello world program just typing
compiling running see the output wow output coming leaving the chair leaving
the system not learning you become typist if you want to confidently say I
learned something here as many errors possible you have to get from that program that is the way you have to
learn understand uh now my question is Here I wanted to read this data. Tell me
how to read this data. Who is reading notepad in our Java project? Will you
read data by using Notepad? Again, we are read data by using Java application.
Tell me how to develop Java application for reading test 02
reading data. How many lines of code? Same three lines. Control one. Tell me
first line. I have to read the data. To read data what? File. File input stream.
Huh? FIS equal to in file input stream also. How many constructors are there?
Three constructors. Number one file. File descriptor and string. What which
constructor I have to take? String. What is the file name? You have to give ABC.txt.
Uh so first connection is there. I have to handle exception here. Which exception throws
file not found? Exception. Uh then next step write a reader. FIS dot what is the
method name? Read. Uh tell me this read method will read all bytes available in
the file. Enter file or only one bite. Only one bite it read. One bite means
eight bits it will read and read that one bite and return to program or print
on the console. Read method is meant for reading from the file and print reading from the file
return to the programmer. Read method meant for return to the program. That means you have to assign
this read method to a variable data. You are reading one bite data that I
assigned to the variable. Only people guess and tell me. Now read me reading one bite. One bite representing data
type in Java is by then the variable I mean the read return type is by int.
Come on by in int not by because by
automatically converted to int. When you use bite and short in the program you
cannot use bite and short directly. They are automatically converted to passing time you have to pass as int only.
reading time you have to get them as a int only but read method is throwing
I exception you should handle and then after that fis dot close
fis dot close and system dot out dot print of
print len of print the data uh now tell me our fis class return the
data in a character format or in a binary format. binary format means it
returns what one by look at there you will get the data as 97 oh sorry I don't
want 97 like notepad I want here also text data then what to do
type cast to car data
look at that 97 is coming as a everyone understand uh so tell me what is the
program for writing and reading data Just three steps. Step number one, connect it to file by creating file
output stream object. Write data flush data. Close connection. Reading data
also contain how many steps? Three steps. Step number one, connect to the file. Read the data.
Close connection. Right on this propert
tomorrow I will try 90 99.99%
to complete this chapter. Tomorrow class because of your personal works if you miss the class then you are
going to face the problem and tomorrow class is only online 9:00 a.m. shop we will start the class and we'll continue
maximum time to complete the chapter. If the chapter not completed, I may take
night class also. Okay. Now I'll give the break and again
night also I will take the class. So already we completed our 3 months
duration. We are taking extra time. So extra time should utilize properly
maximum time to complete our full syllabus not skipping anything. For that Sundays you have to support me. If you
are not supporting giving complaint saying that Sunday you are taking that time you are taking this time I am taking I'm not disturbing your other
classes now Sunday only I'm taking extra time only I'm spending so you have to come if you
don't want extra knowledge don't join if you want extra knowledge join the
this Sunday and next coming Sunday, two Sundays. If you work hard, we can complete our maximum syllabus.
You have lot of free time after course completed. I'm telling you only I will
take Sunday classes only I will torture you more time other faculties will not
take Sunday classes if they take Sunday classes they will take only 1 hour one and a half hour not
more than that only I will take long sessions because I want to teach huge knowledge on core Java
then only you can pass interview okay shall I tell you one secret
really every month you are seeing some uh people placement some poster release
this month the 250 people placed right in the 250 members majority of the
students are your seniors from my batch placement team whenever they want
candidates for placing in the companies even though my batch is not belongs to
placement badge. They will send the mails to you. Are you following? Why companies are
looking for just candidate or knowledge people? Who is the knowledge people
HK product? You accepted or not accepted that is true.
Okay. So core Java I will teach very very depth in detail and also remember I
will take Sunday classes actually old batches I used to take from second
Sunday itself Sundays in the demo class only I used to say seven days per week not six days
after corona students are become so lazy
one second can I write multiple bytes Here 97. Can I write B?
Can I write B? Yes. Can I write my name? Can I write my name? Har? No. Because
right method can take either one by or by array. Then how can I convert string
to byte array? Dot get bytes method I have to call.
Next I am writing here 5,000 5,000 or 50,000 whatever accepted by the
right method yes because what the parameter of the right method intcept
but 5,000 saved in the file it converted to byte range minus 128 to 127 that
number will be stored okay now uh then flush me write on this program
uh what I'm telling so I used to take before corona I used to take Sundays for
the new batches or old batches from the beginning Sundays itself. But after corona students becomes too lazy
and of course parents also getting lot of money for free from YouTube from
promotions from easy money they have started getting parents are started getting easy money then they are not
teaching the responsibilities to the kids if the kid is asking 1,000 rupees
parents are giving 2,000 enjoy enjoy that enjoyment slowly slowly become what you know negligency
no responsibility, no target in the life. Finally they are becoming you know
irresponsible. So the slowly what I did 7 days if I say people are saying no we don't join sir 6
days then later 3 months extra time 3 months you are
more than 3 months you are taking I don't join sir I make it a 3 months if I make it at 3 months finally what happen
subject gone then to not to miss the subject I prepared some videos and shared are sharing videos not teaching
everything complain complain complain complain because social media is complaints on
any video open what will be there faster fingers automatically typing negative comment comment comment one thing also
possible we are not looking nowadays so ultimately I have to skip the content
if I skip the content what happened you'll not get the job
again coming back sir you are not teaching as like previously if you support me I will teach as
previously It's all depending on you know why why all movies are not coming family oriented movies why all crime
oriented movies is crime oriented movie
super bumper hit movie there was a movie released by
family at flop Family star movie
crime movie.
If any values teaching movie coming family oriented movies now family oriented completed a program
to change your attitude you have to support at least last Sundays. You should ask me take Sunday classes
teach me extra knowledge but I am ask requesting please come Sunday I will teach more knowledge
such a worst candidates look at here in the file how many bytes
data stored can you count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
totally how many bytes seven bytes double click and tell me what I told one
bite is one Character shift. Press the shift button on your keyboard. Left
arrow. Uh, how many characters are selected? One. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Seven bytes are
there. To read seven bytes, how many read methods I have to call? Seven read methods I have to call. Uh,
now read data one here. How many bytes available?
Seven bytes are there. But how many bytes we read? Only one bite. Only one bite will come. If you want seven bytes,
I have to call read method seven times. Data one, data 2, data 3, data four,
data five, data 6, data 7. Seven times you read. First read me the read first
by second read second by uh then here print how many times? Seven times. Data
1, data 2, data 3, data 4, data 5, data 6,
and data 7. Hishek, are you there?
Look at there. What is coming? 97 store 97 98 98 Hurry is coming. What? What is
coming? 5,000 coming up 136 sir
sir 136 is not in the range of bite now what the bite range
up to 127 but what is coming uh listen
five one by range is signed number not unsigned unsigned
means - 126 to 127 but signed means 0 to 256
one by range file doesn't contain minus value. Why doesn't contain minus value?
In a file if you type minus1 it is one bite or two bytes. Two
bytes that's why there is no negative number you cannot type in the file. So file
byte range is what? 0 to 255 totally 256 0 to 255 so the given 5,000
is converted to the range of 0 to 255 and the coming number is what 136 clear
my point right completed all the people
write program completed totally how many steps are there three steps for the three steps one 2 3 Connect right close.
Uh now reading three steps. What the three steps?
Connector reader close. This is also comes under what? Reading a
data reading from a file. Okay. Sorry.
Develop a program.
Please type these two programs in your system. IO stream chapter is a kind of revision
chapter from object oriented programming and exception handling both. So while
typing have common sense. Okay. Okay, I want to create a package package chapter and I want to access predefined classes
import package after import class main method. I go team chapter throw in
check exceptions I should handle I uh what do you call exception handling if
you wanted to connect with a file I should create what file input stream object non-static members chapter object
oriented programming basics okay here I am calling file input stream class constructor by passing file name oh for
storing this file name inside file input stream class background one non-static variable is available available or not
available. When you see the class, you have to visualize this as a class name. Class file input stream class open
bracket closed bracket. Inside this class, we have a string file name. We
are giving this file name to the constructor. Constructor contains logic. This dot name equal to name parameter
name storing in class level name. Okay. Here the connection is created to the file. Okay. I wanted to read data inside
file input stream class after constructor. I have a method called what? Read public. Return type is what?
In method name is read throws iy exception open bracket. Internally it has a logic going into the file reading
the one byte data return to our program. The entire background code structure program structure you have to visualize
who developed that predefined program already developed. But you have to visualize while calling every member. So
that object- oriented programming first day to last day whatever you learn it will be revised.
So when you read a program by using Java, you will get in a binary format. When you read the same data by using
file, you will get in text format. Who is showing the data in the text format? Notepad. Notepad software converting
binary data to character data. But our Java program will not convert binary to character. It written the binary data as
binary only. If you want you have to convert to the character data. Okay. So
notepad software in contains what? Character conversion is there. That's it. So with these two programs I'm
expecting all the people practice and come tomorrow morning 9:00 a.m. we will continue and learn how to write
primitive data in their sizes and how to write object in the file read
object from the file. So tomorrow 99.99% we will complete this chapter Monday
onwards we'll start learning multi- threading chapter freshly. Okay thank you see you tomorrow.
We definitely
can add in that
automatically the file will not Oh, if I already there it will not create. If I not there then only
tomorrow I'll write
I'm not joining there as a employer to take my money back by giving three service. I'm joining there to take give
the service and take money. Don't cheat me.
Genuine company.
Okay.
Add another question.
Let us cover
advanced Java
advanc.
Java and spring also. fell.
Don't join so many courses at a time.

