ript


Right. Good morning everyone. Last class we completed serialization.
So today let us try to understand des serialization.
So what is d serialization means? Serialization means saving object data
in the file is called serialization.
Right? Writing object data inside a file. Saving object data inside a file
is called des serialization. Sorry, serialization. Then what is deserialization?
Same retrieving the object from the file and
storing inside JVM is called what? Deserialization. Storing or writing object data inside
file is called serialization. Reading data from the object is called what? D
serialization. How can I complete serialization? By using object output
stream class write object method we can complete serialization. Then how can I do des serialization? For doing des
serialization what should I use? Tell me object output stream object input stream
object input stream. So can you help me to write the code?
Tell me.
Okay. First I'm writing this object data.
object data is saved. Okay. Uh now in the file student object data is
available. I want to read that object. Tell me what code I have to write now. First I have to create object input
stream. Object input stream. Object input stream. OIS equal to new object
input stream of uh what you write new
new file input stream of the file name what
the file name uh objects
right uh tell me now inside this file our student object available I want to read from that file for that should I do
any extra or no simply I should write OIS dot read object so tell me what is
the prototype of read object method read object method doesn't take any input
read the object from this file and return that object to our program so to
because it is returning object to our program what I should write assign the statement to the local variable object
OBJ now the question read object method reading and returning what object from
this file Student object. Am I right? Student object. What object is saved in this
file? Student object. Then what is the object it is returning? Student object. But I have assigned to which variable?
Super class. Everyone tell me read object method return type. If it is a student, if read object meth return type
is a student then read object method always can read and return student object only. Now then object input
stream is working only with student. So object input stream class should be a
specific to one class object or common to all class objects common. If you want to develop common you have to develop
what what approach you must develop runtime polymorphic approach loose coupling approach. So read method return
type is read method return type is what object read method return type is
object. So that any object available in the file it can construct and return to our program. Now you want to use the
student object as a object type or as a student type student type. So tell me by
using OBJ dot can I call any of the data available inside the student? No, I can
access who using OBJ dot I can access only the members available in the object
class. So what is the solution to this problem? I have to type cast student s
equal to student of remember I type casting up casting down casting student
of what you write obj. So student s equal to student of OBJ then what I
should write now yes dot uh you can call get method I want to get the student
number who is the student we write we write from there student number and I want read what get student name and I
want read get a course get course uh and I want read get a fee uh I want read
other details get email get email and uh I want read
get a mobile and I want read get gender
and I want read is a working status
where is that studying status
for the studying set mother not coming oh gram mother It is removed.
Oh is studying now sir studying boolean value no boo get method will be what set
is a is
why it is not showing
sorry
get uh it is Easy stud.
Okay. Now look at the run this program. All the data coming back from the file are so tell me what happened here when
you run like this. Let me try to explain the internals how it is working background.
Uh this is our Java application. Sorry, this is the file. Inside file already we
have student data. Then this is our Java application.
In Java application, we have created file input stream. Okay. File input
stream is connected to the file. Uh then
file input stream to the file input stream.
What is connected?
Object input stream. And this is file input stream. The data is reading from
here. What is coming? Object coming up. Stream of bytes coming up. Stream of
bytes coming. That stream of byes reading by whom wis dot
o read object method. O dot read object method. First step it has to read return
stream of bytes as it is in object format. Object format to create student
object. First of all student class has to be loaded into JVM. So student class
is loaded. After student class is loading then it construct the student
object. How many variables are available in student class? Uh 1 2 3 4 5 6.
Student number, student name, course, fee, email, mobile, gender and studying.
All the values are all the variables memory created with what values? Default
values. Always first it create with what default values. After creating object uh
tell me is read object method call constructor. No. Because read object
method must initialize this object not with the user given values with the values available in the file. Then
already it has read stream of bytes. In the stream of bytes, first it is looking
for what? Student number is a student number available here. Yes. Read and store here 1.1. Then next variable is
what? Student name available in stream of bytes. Yes. Read and stored here. HK. And then course fee um gender studying
all values are reading from the file and stored and return that variable to our local variable obj. return the reference
of the object to our variable obj then obj pointing to what now object class
object so student class is subass of wh no object we didn't create as a person
we create subclass of object then I want to create the reference to the student class for that I have to create another
variable copy the reference here and pointing to it okay then after s1 dot so
what this os do read object method is doing totally three operations it is doing. Number one read stream of bytes
from the read stream of bytes from the file. Number two
create load the class load the class and create instance load the class and
create instance. And third initialize the instance initialize the instance by
reading the values from where from the stream of bytes from the file. So these are the three operations it will do and
finally returns the object reference as its own type or as a object type object
type. Then as a developer we have to type cast that object student and store it in yes variable.
And further I call getter method. Get method going to object reading the uh
get value. All the v field values are coming. So in the project whenever you want to store your object data in the
file what I have to do I should use object output stream write object method
in the object output stream if you want to write your object data to
your file. What is the rule you have to satisfy? You must implement that object from serializable. Then I want to read
object from the file. While reading object from the file are there any rules available? Yes. So currently I satisfied
all the rules of read object method that's why data successfully read and returned to our program. But there is a
rule in the read object method. What is the rule? Whatever the class file you
have used for serializing sameclass file you must use for des
serializing. Again I'm repeating the statement. Whatever the doclass file you have used
for serializing. same dotclass file you have to use for des serializing
for example now I am trying to do some changes in the doclass file I'm writing
something like this private int some age variable I'm adding okay student age I
have added here then tell me this student java file is a compiled and newclass file generated now I am trying
to do d serialization now read object method will complete this reading or not let us check uh look Is it reading
object or throwing exception? Throwing exception. What is the exception? Read invalid class exception. Invalid class
exception. Java nit.hk.io stream. Why it is invalid? Local class
incompatible. The class you are using for serializ deserializing is not
compatible. Why is it not compatible? Observe here it is giving some information. Stream class description
serial version UID. Serial version UID of the local class. Serial version UID
of the class which is saved inside the dot inside the STR file. And the serial
version UID you are using for currently loading the class are both the same or not same not same. Again repeating the
rule for des serializing the object you must use the class file which you have
used in serialization. Then how read object method knows which class is used
in the serialization? There should be identity. Now uh how
with the identity that identity is nothing but serial version UID variable
there is a implicitly serialization process. D serialization
process means write object method read object method internally using one special variable called what? Serial
version UID variable. While writing your while writing your object data into the
file when a serial version UID value is generated saved in the STR file. Then
when you are doing D serialization read object method load your class into JVM
and generate the new serial version UID with the class. If the serial version UID of the old class and new classes are
same serialization is complete. Sir how this version how the serial version UID number is generated? It is depending on
number of the members available in your class. For example, I'm not doing any changes in your class. Number of
variables and methods you declare in the class are same as serialization derialization. Observe now did you get
any exception now? No. Right? Do you have any serial version UID variable here? No. So whatever the number of
variables available in your class in the D serial in the serialization and in the D serialization both are same because
both are same then there is no problem. Diabilization completed. When we add one
extra variable here, what happened? Uh number of variables available in the classes got changed. Then automatically
serial version UID number will be changed. For example, previously you are adding 10 + 20. What the result? 30.
First time, second time, third time, fourth time, fifth time always the result is what? 30. For example, now you
have added after first time adding second time adding time you have added plus 30. Then the result is coming.
Previously now same are different different similarly number of variables are changed then automatically serial
version UID variable also will get changed then D serialization will not be completed. Now very important point what
is the rule in des serialization. In a des serialization the doclass file you have used in the serialization must be
same as des serialization also. If you add any variables if you add any
variables or methods newly in this class then serialization proc serialization process will not be completed. So what
is the problem in a serialization des serialization? Once you save your object data in the file, you cannot change the
class members. If you change serialization, I mean deserialization will not be completed. Is it a problem
or not? Yes. Then what is the solution to this problem? The solution to this problem is very simple. Let not JVM
generate the serial version UID number in a D serialization serialization. You try to create your own. Observe Eclipse
is already giving one warning here saying that Babu the serializable class student doesn't declare a static final
serial version UID field create it create let Eclipse create that variable
by itself or you can also type but what the syntax is this is a standard syntax what is that private static final long
private static final long this is what you have to choose following by serial version u equal to any number you can
give generally by default we are choosing what one. Then with this variable now what you have to do first
you do des serialization control F1 tell me first you do serialization uh go to
write object method control F1 serialization completed now come back to
des serialization at the time of serialization what is the serial version UID number is write object method
generating number using the existing number it uses the existing number it
will not generate the new number okay Then now when you are doing des serialization is read object method
generating new number or using existing number using existing number existing number one. Now the new number is also
one. Finally serialization is completed successfully. The next point is very important. In a student class I am
adding one extra variable here. Private int age. Tell me when you add extra
variable any problem to des serialization? No because serial version UID already available in the class then
it uses the existing value will not generate the new value because it is using existing value. Look at there
serialization is completed. Uh interviewer ask compulsory asking question what is the purpose of serial
version UID variable in the doclass file. If you don't add a serial version UID variable is there any compile time
error? No. Any runtime error? Yes or no? Yes. In what situation? D serialization.
If serial version UID variable is not available in a des serialization, we may
get invalid class exception if the class is changed by adding more variables and
more methods. So if you wanted to continue the serialization des
serialization even though class members are changed then you should have serial version UID variable in your class. So
what is the standard you have to follow? Whenever your class is implementing serializable interface in your class
immediately what you have to add you must add public static final long serial
version UID variable with one L. Okay. Uh then when you write it always your serialization deserialization
successfully completed. If you don't add this line serialization, no problem. In
a desialization, as long as you don't change the class by adding more variables, more methods, no problem.
Once you change the number of variables, number of methods, then problem will come. So to solve this problem, what I
have to do, you yourself has to create serial version UID variable always. So finally discussion is on whenever you
are doing serialization have a habit of creating serial version UID variable first and then your class members.
Everyone got the point into your mind
students? Everyone please confirm.
Okay. Now let's continue next point. Now in a serialization
some of the data I don't want to save in the file.
Again everybody in a serialization I don't want to save some of the data in
the file. I want to stop saving. Then in that case what should I do?
Tell me I want to provide memory to this variable without creating object. What should I do?
I want to provide memory to this variable without creating object. What should I do?
Similarly, I don't want to save this data in the file. The default nature of
the variable I want to change then declare it as transient.
What is the keyword? You have to use transient. So what is a transient? Like static like final transient is also
modifier keyword. It is used for stop saving some of the
fields data in the file. Some of the fields data in the file in
the serialization process. For example, I don't want to store my mobile number.
Then what I do? Declare it as what? Transient. If you declare it as a transient I don't want to save my email
id in the file then declare it as a transient. Uh if you open your file previously previous file if you open
objectr look at there in this file you have
observe you have
email id variable is available here right and uh
mobile variable is available here that means serialization already completed. with all the fields and its content is
available Java Har Krishna. Now after declaring these variables as transient
now I'm going to write object method F11 object data is saved open this file
again uh look at there do you have do you have email variable mobile
variable mobile variable is not there right and if you scroll right side look at that
you have email id email data here No. So if you want to store I mean if you don't
want to save your object data inside the file while serialization you must
declare this variable as what? Transient. Transient prevent saving object data in the file. So temporary
values if you don't want to save in the file you declare that variables as what? Transient. So tell me is email ID
temporary data? No. Mobile temporary data? No. Then is it good idea to declare it as a
transient? No. So just for your knowledge sake I'm explaining inter
what is the use of transient? Transientend is a modifier keyword. It is used for stop saving object data
inside the field in the serialization process. Whichever the field data you
don't want to save in the file declare that field as a transient. Uh next if
you declare field as a transient and when the object data not saved in the file in the des serialization process
what is the data saved in the transient field default values will be stored null and zero in the des serialization object
is created including transient variables and transient variables data is read and
stored what default value it will store variable of water type string default value null variable is of water type
long then default value zero will be stored. So transient variable in the serialization not saved in the file in
the des serialization uh what it will do it will read and store what default
value all people understand the story right so totally serialization means what are the points we have to
understand first point we need to understand what is what is what is
serialization and des serialization okay second point uh when should we do
when serialization and des serialization. Okay. Third point we should learn how can we do serialization
and des serialization. Okay. Fourth point you should learn what is the rule in what the rule in serialization and
tell me what the rule in serialization the object must be implementing from serializable interface. And next uh how
can we do okay what is the rule in d serialization? In d serialization the
the class the class structure should not be changed by adding number of variables
or number of methods. Then how can we how can we change
how can we change it? Class structure class structure
and continue
continue des serialization. Uh in the class we should have serial version UID
variable. The next what is serial version UID variable? It is a private
static final long type variable. It is used as a communication between d
serialization and serialization to tell to d serialization process. The class is
not changed. So if you don't create serial version uid variable when you modify the class structure the d
serialization will not be completed. We will get exception invalid class exception. Then next point uh what is
the use of what is transient? What is the transient? It is a modifier
used for declaring a field as a transient to stop saving serialization.
Okay. What what will happen
for a transient variable in serialization and des
serialization? In a serialization, transient data is not saved in the file.
In a des serialization, default value will be stored. Many faculties are
telling transient variable default value stored in the file. Wrong answer.
Again everybody faculties are telling transient variable default value stored
in the file. Now confirm yourself is it right or wrong? Look at the file. In the
file do you have transient variable and it's a data as variable not there? Age,
fee, gender, student number, studying course. Do you have email id, mobile?
No. If you declare variable as a transient, it's complete information is
not saved in the file. Not a default value. Complete information is not saved in the file. Then in the des
serialization, what value we are getting? Default value. By seeing the default value, people are feeling that
default value is stored in the file. No by seeing the variable as a transient decentralization process doesn't store
any I mean doesn't accept the data from the file directly it will store default value is it clear so repeating once
again transient variable doesn't save in the file deserialization process
default value will be stored uh very important point in in a serialization is
the default value stored for the transient variable no nothing is saved in the file for the transend variable So
this is the complete story about serialization and deserialization related all points and every point I
mention the material please read if there are any extra point in the material try to read and practice
yourself and this much is sufficient as per the current market trends. So olden
days so much of deep knowledge is required for serialization deserialization other stuff. But
according to now the latest market and interview process this much knowledge is sufficient because we are not giving
much importance to IO stream chapter in interviews and also in the project. Olden days many of the time we use this
civilization desivilization in the project. Nowadays no one is using it that jam gone everybody using only
database. Okay. So that's why civilization this much knowledge is sufficient. Let's not waste the time by
discussing more points. If any extra points are there in the material, practice yourself and if you got any
doubt, ask me. I'll explain.
Now up to now what you have learned how to write and read object data, how to
write and read primitive values, how to write and read data as a one byte data.
Okay, one bite data is the default approach of writing and reading. That is not sufficient for our program because
in our program we have the data more than one bite range. If you want to write more than one byte range data you
should use right what do you call data input stream and data output stream but
my project contains maximum data as a object format. So to write object read
object I have to use object output stream and object input string. Now the very important these all classes are
working background with a one special class called what file. If you wanted to
write your data inside a file first of all the file must be available. Now for example I am deleting this uh uh object
str file. Tell me in our hard disk in our system is object file available? No.
Then file output stream is throwing exception of creating file. Creating
file object data is saved background. The file is created by object I mean
file output stream class. Okay. File is created by file output
stream class. How is it creating? Uh internally it is using one special class
called what? File class. What the name of that? File class. So up to now we are understanding file IO file input file
output and also serialization. Now we have to learn the next point is what?
How to create the file? First of all how to create the folder first of all how to create the file and how to create the
folder. Observe now whenever you are dealing with IO package classes you have
to handle what exception io exception. Okay. Now I'm writing file f_sub_1 equal
to we have a predefined class called what file to represent the file and try to answer now I want represent student
then what the class is available student I want to represent employee what the class available employee so similarly I
have a file of file f1= new file of double quotes here which file I'm taking
let me take any file xyz txt file I'm taking any name you can take tell me is
this XYZ.XT file available in my system? No. Uh now if I run this program, is
this line file F1 equal new file? Will it create the file XYZ.xt in the system?
No. File class just represent the file path. It will not create the file. It
will not even check the file available or not. Let me show you that. Let me run this program. Completed execution. Go
and check in the folder. Is this file created or not created? Right click uh refresh. Observe file is there or not
there? Not there. So what this line is doing in our JVM he area just file class
object is created with the path xyz.xt. So file the class file is used for just
representing the file path. It doesn't verify even file available or not then who will verify this file class contain
a method called what? This file class contain a method called what? exists. This method will verify is the file
available or not. So if you wanted to verify file is available or not. Create the file class object by giving the file
name as the input and then call file class method call what exists by using this exist method. We can verify whether
the file is available or not. Now look at that file is available or
not available. Not available. Then it returns what? False. Next. Now very important point. If a file is not
available, I want to create that file. For creating that file, you should use F1 dot uh there is a method called
create new file. What the method name? Create new file. f1 dot create new file.
Uh now create new file method can it create always the file? No. If a file
already available, can it create or cannot create? Cannot create. Create new file method is meant for creating the
file with the name stored in the file object. What the name you have used here? XYZ.XT.
With the name XYZ.txt in the hard disk the file is created.
Uh repeating once again the class file will it represent the file or file path
file path. That means is it creating a new file in the directory by default
with the object creation? No. At least is it checking the file available or not available? No. It is not looking into
hard disk. When it will look into hard days only when we call it a methods. What are the methods available? First
exist method.
Exist method is there. What the use of exist method? It is used for verifying whether the file is available or not.
Next create new file method is used for creating the file. If I run this
program, observe file is not available. Hence, file is created. Create new file method returns what? True. Ah, now in
our disk with the name XYZ.txt, file is created. Observe. Right click,
refresh. File created where it is creating in Eclipse. In hard disk, in hard disk in
the which folder IO streams folder in your project folder, IO streams XYZ.xt
file is created. Okay, now very important point. If I run this program second time, what happen?
F1.exist method returns true. Create new file returns. Is the file again created
or not created? Not created. Next file f_sub_2 equal to new file of
using this file object. Can I create directory
inside this? I can create two things. Number one directory number two file using file class I created a file using
file class can I create directory let me take the directory name as pqr system
outprint and uh f2 dot exist tell me is this file available or not available not
available then it returns what false look at the false
okay false now I want to create with the name pqr. I want to create directory.
Uh what is the command for creating directory from the console?
mkdir. CD for changing directory. For creating what is that? Make directory
mkdir. Look at there is a method called what? Mkdir. And now look at there. What happened?
Mkdir making a directory and returns what? True. And now look at there. Right
click. Right click. Refresh. Look at there. Directory PQR created now. So
tell me what are the methods available in the what the use of file class? File class is used for representing the file
in Java program. Using file class we can create new files and directories in the
project in the hard disk. Okay. Now for knowing whether file available or not we
must call what method exists. For creating a file as a file, I should call what method? Create new file. For
creating file as a directory, I should use what? MKT. Next, tell me if you
remember, I can create subdirectories. Now, I have already one directory. Inside directory, I want to create
subdirectories. Inside the directory, I want to create a files. Then what I should write now? Help me. file F3 equal
to new file of inside PQR inside PQR
inside PQR I want to create inside PQR I
want to take PQR as a parent I want to take PQR as a parent inside this parent
I want to create PTXT as a file ptxt as
a file uh then what I should call F3 dot uh what the method name I have to call
create new file
tell me now P.txt txt create as a file in io streams folder in a pqr folder uh
file class contain two constructors number one that takes file name as a one
argument number two takes two arguments in these two arguments first argument is
the parent and second argument is the child inside pqr folder ptxt is created
as a file now look at there true and Then
uh look at here refresh right click
in a pqr folder look at that p.txt file is created uh next now tell me I wanted
to take uh one more structure now here system.outl outprint
in PQR folder I want to create ABC as a folder. Uh if you want to create ABC as
a folder, what method I have to call? MK diir and F4 dot. Save it. Control F1
F3. Now look at there. Uh what happened?
True. True means what? Created.
ABC folder created. So if you want to create a file
in the present directory, project directory, use one parameter constructor. If you want to create a
file or directory inside existing folder, use what? Two parameter construct. Now you may ask me question
sir suppose there is no parent, there is no child
sir. Both I want to create at a time. For example, I'm writing M,
double quotes STV. I want to create M as a folder. STV as a subfolder. Then what
I should write? There is a method called MK D sorry
FI dot MK DIS. What the meaning of DIS? Directories. Directories. Uh, now
control F1. Look at there. What? Okay. MKDS doesn't return any true or false.
So that's why call directly. Then you have to go to system and verify.
Now look at there. Right click refresh. Refresh the project. Uh look at the MO created inside M STB create. So finally
what are the most important methods you have to know? File class contain method
exists. File class contain method create new file. File class method contain MKD.
File class method contain MKD diir. If you want to create a file create new
file. If you want to create directory mkdir. If you want to create parent and
child directory both at a time then two parameter constructor you have to use with mkdirs method. So this is the
program where you can understand how to create the files and directories. Everyone understand? Right. Then next.
Now I want to understand how to delete these files and directories. Once you create sometimes I want to delete for
that I want write Java program all the people know how to delete directories in the system right click delete right
click delete right now in Java program how can you delete for creating purpose we have a method call create for a
deleting purpose we have a method call delete then first you have to create file object f1 equal to new file of look
at the constructor string parameter which file you want to delete xyz txt
file I want to delete then you Write f_sub_1 dot there is a method called what? Delete all delete method kam it
will delete delete method returns true actually
already deleted go to here uh sir it is showing here now
s I didn't refresh refresh f5
okay now now next I want to delete file f_sub_2 equal to new file of uh I have I
have inside pqr we have p.txt txt file I want
to delete it. Can I write like this? Double quotes in a pqr folder / p.txt
file. I want renew. Will it work? Once upon a time long long ago, three
and a half months back. I explained something called backslash. What is backslash?
Backslash is a escape sequence character. After backslash if you write
normal characters other than ntrs fb single quote double quote slash you
will get compile time error. I want to use a slash here then what I have to use
double slash double slash place. Uh then I want to delete this pqr.txt.
What I should write system out.print ln either you want to delete a file or a
directory. What is the method I have to call? F_sub_2 dot delete.
Here PQR deleted P.XT deleted P.XT deleted.
Prove F2 refers to child always. Then now open package explorer and here
refresh.xt remove. Tell me I want remove uh that uh
ABC folder. What I write file F3 equal to new file
pqr/ what you write a b c a capital letter
small letter only then now f_sub_2 do f3 dot f3 dot f11 uh look at there deleted
uh now abc still you are seeing refresh it will gone everyone Understand right? So if you
want to delete a file or a directory, what method you have to call? Delete. Delete method. Same method for both
fileation and also directory deletion. Next important point, there is also
another method called There is also another method called F3. Okay, I'm
calling file F4 equal to new file of
double quotes PQR. Now I want to delete PQR folder. Then there is also another
method called delete on exit. There is a method called delete and another method
called what? Delete on exit. What the meaning of delete on exit? Delete this
directory or file after exiting who JVM. Until JVM is running, the file is not
deleted. After JVM is exited means closed, then the directory will be
deleted. So to prove that point here, I'm writing uh system.out outer print
system.out print f4 f4 dot exist method
I'm calling if file is available at the time this line is executed if that file pqr available exist method returns what
true what method I have to call here delete on exit delete on exit immediately deleting after jvm exited by
the time line number 19 f4.exist Exist method executed file is still available
now. So it returns what? True. Observe now. Uh now JVM closed. Then go to the folder
and refresh. Is that PQR still available? Yes, because not refreshed. Look at there. PQR folder is removed
from the hard disk. Uh now what is the difference between delete and delete on exit? Delete method will delete the
folder or file immediately. Delete and exit method will delete the folder after
JVM completed or exist. So these are the important points you have to know about
how to work with file class. Okay. Open material and verify are all these points available.
Confirm and some more extra programs also available for your practice.
This is these are the main concept with this knowledge. Uh some more extra points also available in the material
you can practice. Please confirm please. Everyone watch check material.
Yeah, Vive, you didn't respond when I responded, right?
I sent two times messages on WhatsApp. You didn't respond. When I am busy, you are responding.
Are you working employee?
after class immediately send message when I reply please available.
Uh all people understand IO stream chapter with this we completed IO streams and in that chapter some extra
programs I gave for your practice practice it while practicing if you got any doubts ask me I'll help you to
understand okay okay so finally what is the target of IO
stream chapter IO input output if you want either input or you want output
first of all what required file is required uh now to create file I have a
predefined class called what file next file class only with the structure of
the file will be what means what you I mean creating file deleting file know the file information but to store data
inside file to read data from the file I have the class called what file input
stream and file output stream whatever the work you did with the file input
stream you can also do the same work with what file File reader also.
Okay. File reader. Same work. Whatever you did with file output stream, you can also do with what? File writer also. The
difference between input stream and reader. It will work with only text. Uh it will work with both binary data and
also what text data. So what is the recommended way of writing text data?
Not with IO file file input stream with only what file reader. Okay. Uh next now
if you wanted to write primitive data both file input stream file reader file
output stream file writer will work with only one byte range data but I want more
than one byte ranger to work then we have to use data output stream of file
output stream data input stream of file input stream with the uh write and read
xx methods you have to use by using data output stream data input stream I can write and read data only primitive data
type range data only. If you want write one complete object then I should use
object output stream of foss and object input stream of fis. So totally three
sections are there in this chapter. What are the three sections? Number one file class for creating and deleting files
and directories. Number two, read and write data in original format, one bite
format. Number three, read and write data by serializing data output stream.
Data input stream is also doing kind of serialization. The given data 97 is
converted to what? Stream of bytes. On what size? Primitive data size it is
converting the data into stream of by it is also kind of serialization but not considering. So a big object is
converted to stream of object stream of bytes and then save inside the file.
This process this process is called what? Serialization. Taking this object
taking the stream of bytes back and converting into original object. This process is called what? D serialization.
So this is the complete story about IO stream chapter. Very simple buji chapter. Now with this we done with IO
stream and your practice is remaining. So in your free time practice it and some extra programs are there in the
material practice them also. Anytime you got any doubt ask me I'll explain. Now let us go to the next chapter. What is
that multi- threading? Okay multi- threading before explaining I want to
take one real time example. Maybe many of time you have experienced it. This is the bank.
There is a counter for deposit and another counter also for deposit. But
only one country is open, another country is closed. So this is a queue.
Okay. Already people are there. 1 2 3 4 5 6 like that many people are there. Now
you wanted to deposit money. Olden days there is no deposit machine. You have to
go to bank. From your office you started coming coming. Enter it into bank and
then come to this counter. Okay. You taken permission from your boss only
30 minutes half an hour permission you taken to complete deposit and go back to office. But here if you see there are
already 50 members in the queue then how much time you need to complete
the deposit. Within 30 minutes can you complete your deposit?
Here the cashier is now typing this 12digit account number with a single
finger 1023 E4. Okay. And middle these people has done
some mistakes on the deposit form. Again he is correcting the deposit form mistakes also. For one person to come
out of this counter it is taking minimum 10 minutes. Then what is happening in
your brain? Some burning is happening. Huh? Tension started now. Then what will you
do? You will started shouting here. Hey, how much time you will take to complete deposit? These many people are there.
Why you are not open another counter? You started shouting now. The manager somewhere available in his cabin came
out. What is happening outside? What are you shouting? Uh he found the other employees happily sitting here doing
batakani. They're talking here leaving the customers to their fate and happily
they're enjoying here. Then manager started shouting at the employees. Then one of the employee went and open one
more counter. Uh bolo. What happened when open one more counter?
Huh? All these people shipped to this counter.
Okay. Uh now tell me when all these people ship this counter, this counter is free.
Okay done. Now my question is at a time how many deposits are completing now?
one or two deposits then the process is slow first
tell me how many paths yeah pats how
many paths of execution must be there to complete program execution first one
path multiple paths are that is what multi-threading
IP is multi- threading
multi- thread Threading in form. Ing form means what? You have to do something. Threading means part.
Uh now finally tell me up to now in your JVM for running all your methods you
have only you have only we have only one thread is there. The by default that
thread is what main JVM by default creates only one thread.
The first first method main method from the main method M1 method from M1 method
M2 method all methods are loading and executing in this main thread only.
Suppose M1 M2 methods are called from the main method called from the main
method. Both methods are executed which thread main thread. When M2 method has a
chance to execute immediately. Now when M1 method completed
when M1 method completed control go to JVM JVM then have chance to call M2
method and execute. Suppose this M1 method execution is passed here due to
some reason M1 method execution is blocked. Maybe it is asking the end user
to give input. He is not giving the input. Okay. For reason some some for reason. Uh now the program execution is
blocked then M2 method can execute or cannot execute cannot execute it has to
be suppose there is a main road main road there now this is the main road
from this side I'm coming I found that here complete traffic jam is happened
if I entered into this this traffic then I also got jamun
until it is cleared my time is wasted. I found that here this corner one more
road is there parallel to it. That is our our back side road. Okay. Our road.
Then from this road I have come here and then taking one more gali and then
going. So what happened? Tell me. Did I struck up in this traffic jama? No. No.
Why? Because I have another path of
execution. I have another path of execution that's
why I saved my time. If I don't have another path of execution, I don't have
other alternative. I have to come there and wait. So my time is wasting or not? So tell me if M1 method execution is
paused is M2 method has a chance to execute or no chance. No chance. Then
finally tell me what is your suggestion? Should I call M1 M2 method? Same path or
create another path. If I have another path, another path means what? Another thread. When I
create another thread, JVM creates this thread with the name thread -0.
Uh instead of calling M2 method here, call M2 method in this thread. Call M2
method in this thread. When I call M2 method in this thread below when M1
method execution is passed, JVM also passed shifting to the second thread
then execute M2 method. So tell me time is wasted, time is saved saved. Up to
now we are working with single thread of execution because of this single thread
of execution program execution will be slow. If we run with the multiple
threads of execution program execution slow fast
let me show you in the system and then I'll go for more explanation first you have to accept it right click new class
I'm taking a class called what example in this class example I'm creating
static wire m system outprint and double quotes M1
M2 system.out print and M2 M3 system.out print and M3. Okay. Uh now
tell me for running this program I'm taking one test class main method class
test 01 I'm executing M1 M2 M3 method sequentially enough concurrently now
one after one running time running
one after M1 completed M2 M2 completed M3 that means what is the flow of
execution sequential flow Flow of execution.
There are three types of flow. Sequential flow of execution. Then main method.
Let me write shortcuts sec. Uh now system.out out print
double quotes main start and main end
what is executed only main execute I want execute
example class M1 what I should write example do M1
M X missing here
example M1 uh what is the output control go to example class M1 executed coming back
can I call M2 method also yes example M2 control come back can I call M3 method
also yes example M3 what is the flow of execution first JBM comes to main then
main method loaded then as part of main method we Call M1 from main method control go to M1. After M1 completed
control coming back to main then go next line. Next line M2 from main method control go to M2. After M2 completed
control come back to main. Next line executed M3. Now inside example class M1 method I am
creating scanner. SN equal to new scanner.
Okay. Next s next line or next whatever I call whenever I
call next program execution is blocked cursor is blinking on the console until
we enter data. Will it come out of the M1 method? Then what about main method
at the line number five? Main method is also passed. M2 M3 method has a chance to execute. No chance
in cursor is blinking there. Until we enter a data, cursor will not
come on. Now I press enter. Okay, I'm giving some a press enter. Now M2 method has a chance to execute that 5 minutes
are 10 minutes that I didn't enter a data is wasting for M2 M3 method also. Huh? Uh this is the problem with the
existing approach of projects development
happily sleeping. Then why did you come to the class?
Answer not sleeping. Then where are you seeing
explain? What did I explain up to? Not tell me.
What is the problem? What is the problem? No problem.
Shall I stop the course? Today is the last class. Batch completed. Tomorrow onwards no class.
I think you people are got lo lost your interest of learning for other topics. Right.
Daily I'm getting 10 messages when batch completed. When batch completed okay
that is a problem number one problem number two even after you come to the class also you are not responding. Okay,
I think you people are eagerly waiting for daily I'm saying don't sleep don't sleep daily people are sleeping
okay so let's try when there is no interest to learn further then why need
to continue the course why you are waiting unnecessary for me to say course completed
shall I stop course closed today onwards already extra time I spend with you
almost 20 25 days extra time I spend But there is no use right already I got
messages I mean uh already promised to management in 3 months I'll complete the
course 3 months over still not completed okay
where is interest man happily coming to class and sleeping
what the use of it
and I'm not running fast I'm clearly explaining with the diagrams also talking slowly and my health is not
supporting to fast speak fast also maybe you're already observing middle middle I'm stopping and taking deep
breath okay so what what the need of continue the
course I don't understand just coming to class for for my sake saying that about
today anyway's class if they let me go again why that sad feeling and come to the class sit silently no use
I want to daily coming to late to the class. After coming sleeping in the class
then why you are coming?
Tell me.
Abishek one. Abishek are you there?
He will come like a guest officially.
Not there today. Okay. He will come like a guest. One day
will come, 10 days will not come. That one day when he come, he will post one message. You are going very fast, sir.
And he will come only as a speed breaker to me, right? When I'm going very fast, he will come. Hey, you are going very
fast. Go slow. Okay. Today he didn't come
will come tomorrow day after tomorrow when he's a free time he will come back.
So what is the use? That's what my question you tell.
Now the introduction you not showing the interest to know then what did you
understand the next topics in this chapter. This is the introduction multi-threading chapter introduction.
what is the problem existing problem then next to what I am writing what you
will understand next code I will write to solve this problem problem if you don't understand then what you
understand in solution you will get a feeling
uh now tell me everyone this is our JVM
Inside JVM, how many threads are there? One thread. What the name of the thread?
Main. Inside this thread, what is the first method loaded?
Thread the name is main. Method name is also main.
First what is method is loaded? Main method loaded. Then s printed. What you
call next? Then control is go to M1 method logic is loaded in main thread.
Then we call what s next.
What next method is doing? Block the program execution until user give the
input. What is the position of M2 method?
Waiting. What the position of M3 method? Waiting. Why M2 method? M3 method are
waiting because you called sequentially
because you called sequentially. So sequential flow of execution
waste the program. Then even though one method execution is
passed, if you want to continue with other method execution, what to do? Even
though one method execution is terminated, I want to continue with other method execution. What you did
when one method execution is terminated abnormally still we continued with other methods
execution in the project. Further what you did? You caught that exception by using try
catch. You added some extra code try catch. Huh. The regular program is what?
M1, M2, M3 call. In M1 method when exception is arised then the the
remaining two methods M2 M3 main method continued or terminated. Even though M1 method has thrown
exception. If you want to continue M2, M3 and main method remaining logic. Then
what you did? You return try catch surrounding to M1 method.
Similarly and similarly meaning is what? Oh like
try catch I should write some extra code I should write some extra code. Okay
similarly when M1 method execution is paused I don't want to pass JVM I want
to continue running with what? M2 and M3 method. For that I should give one path
of execution or multiple paths of execution. as many methods you want executed at a
time those many paths of execution.
Suppose when you are leaving the classroom next batch of students can
come into the classroom. No I want you leave at the same time I
want other students also come inside. What should I do? I should have one door or two doors. One door for in, one door
for out. One steps for in, one steps for out. Cinema theater.
Cinema theater is single thread model application. Multi-thread model application. Enter from one door, exit
from other. So now tell me our test application is single thread or multi-threader. Single thread. Test
application is single thread or multi-thread. Single thread. Now I want to make it as multi-thread. How? and
tell me now I want to create like main thread. I want to create one more
thread. What do you want to do? What you want to do? I want to create
one more thread. I want to create I want to create thread. I want to create
student. What you do? I want to create one student in Java.
What to do? class student then student S1 equal to
new student. One more student. One more student.
Uh I want to create one employee class employee. First you have to create
a class employee. From the class create objects employee E1 equal to employee
equal to. And now tell me what you want to do in this chapter.
You want to create a thread? Tell me how can I create thread
in Java. Everything is a object. Uh below
create a class thread from the class thread create object thread th1 equal to new thread.
Thread th2 equal to new thread. Thread th3 equal to new thread. Wow. Super
main method. Uh now tell me class thread is specific
to my project or common to all projects. Multi-threading concept is specific to
one project. No. Every Java project required even Java JVM also required or
inside JVM already one thread created to create the thread. I required class
thread now. So tell me I should again create class thread. I should use already available
thread. Uh there is a class called
There is a class called thread. T H R E A D in JDK software in Java.
Langu package already we have one predefined class called what thread this
thread class contain several variables and another classes and constructors
methods lot of things. How many lines of code?
Hey, are you learning this class? No, that is already developed. No, it is
already developed. You are not learning how it is developed. You are learning how to develop, how to use a and tell me
if you want to use any class, what I have to do extend.
I'm not a I'm not asking add some functionality to that class. I'm asking
use that class. If I ask add some extra functionality
then extends okay you want to use it you how to use the bike extend the bike
you'll become ch to the bike how can we create a thread
create thread class object th1 equal to new thread
if I write this line what happened thread created a thread object created
You want a thread object for executing? For storing object object for what?
Storing. If you want to execute, I need some other story. Okay. Carefully observe when we create a thread object
only object is created in a heap area execution is not started. So like main
thread, this is our JVM. Inside JVM we have two memory areas. Heap area and
Java stacks area. In heap area objects are stored. In heap area objects are
stored. In a Java stacks area threads are created to run our logic. Uh tell me
again objects are meant for storing data. Threads are meant for executing
logic. So from a thread I have to create two things. Number one object. Number
two, thread of execution. Repeat once again. From thread, how many things we have to create? Two things. Number one,
object. Number two, thread of execution. When JVM is started, JVM by default
create one thread object here. For which thread? Main thread.
Main thread object. For this main thread object in a Java
stack area thread of execution also started with what name? Main. Then
inside this thread of execution main method is loaded and its logic executed.
All people understand. Uh so repeat once again. If you want to execute logic in the program, what is required? Thread is
required to start this thread. To start this thread, what is required?
Thread object is required. Who created this thread object? JVM. Who started the
thread of execution? JVM. Like JVM did, you should also do the same. Your father
started one business and earn running running that business. Your father designed one business and started that
business and running that business. Earning money from that business. Following. Then after your education
completed, you also decided same as your father wanted to create one
business. Huh? Start that business. Huh? Run that business and earn some money
out of that business. Money and output. Understand? Repeat once again. How many
steps? Number one. Without creating, how can I start? First
word. Create. Start run output. Come again everyone.
Uh tell me okay tell me here in heap area thread object created in a java stack
area thread of execution is started. Terminology very important. Come again.
In a heap area thread object is created. In a Java
stack area thread of execution is started and it is
run and it is run by loading main method logic. So tell me what is the starting
point of running or what is the starting point of execution of the main thread? Main
method. So if you want to run any logic in the main thread, I should write that
logic inside where main thread up to now understand. So what are the terminology
in multi-threading chapter? Create thread object. Start the thread of execution. Run the logic in the thread
of execution. Understood? Uh now tell me by default JVM did that work for the
main thread. Now you are the developer. As a developer you yourself wanted to number one. What you have to do? Create
thread object. Uh created what is the name of this thread object?
Thread -0 spelling complete spelling is there thread -0 it reference is what 10
and store it inside where th now where you created inside main method from the
main thread th1 variable created pointing to this thread object all are sleeping on
uh just by creating thread object can you run your logic to run your logic
what is required to run your logic what is required
I told three words now number one create thread object number two
thread of execution not start to start to start what starter
number one what creator
Create object only create.
You are not hiding anything. You have to speak all the same voice. Come again
create thread object. Second start thread off with execution. Third,
run the logic in thread object or thread of execution.
Run the logic in this thread of execution. Tell me by creating thread class object what is created?
My statement has answer by creating thread object what is created?
Only thread object created with the thread object can I run the logic? What
is required? Thread of execution.
Uh how to start thread of execution. For this thread object I have to start
thread of execution. How to start thread of execution? Main method. Main method is the starting
point of main thread. Uh how to start this thread of execution?
How to deposit an account? How to deposit money in the account?
account account dot deposit. How to withdraw money from the account?
How to start the thread? PH1 dot start.
There is a predefined method called start. Uh if you are using your brain, you never learn Java.
You cannot remember cannot write work with a API library predefined programs.
You have ces of methods lacks of classes thousands of packages
can I will not continue Java.
Rau boy. Rani boy.
Tommy. What is Tommy? Dog. Right. Did I show
the objects here? Yeah. Boy, Rau, girl, Rani, Tommy, dog. Did I show you? Then
how can I say by experience?
Correct. By experience in the society we all following coding standards naming
conventions. Ramu is a boy name. So obviously must be boy name. Rani is a
girl name. Obviously it must be a girl name. In the society we are following some standards. By following those
standards I don't need to remember anything. I have common sense from the day beginning of the course. I am
telling learn cycle not every cycle
you are not learning a particular cycle you learn how to develop bank account application really you didn't learn how
to develop bank account application you learn how to develop a project for one example bank account then when you learn
bank account application same thought process must be applied for every example is every example you learn
freshly are you learning every cycle freshly When you take second cycle again you started falling that side this side
no you are automatically started balancing now how because you learn particular
cycle riding a cycle riding cycle riding you learn not particular cycle same
thing coding standards naming conventions we applied and developed student project employee project bank
account project same coding standards you have to apply for everywhere Here
you should not by heart and remember method names. You have to remember functionality. Okay. What are the
different operations I can perform on a file? Number one, I want to know file
exists or not. What the name? Exist. I want to find I wanted to know uh I want
to create the file. What the me name? Create new file. I want to make the directory. What the name? MKD.
You should not by heart the methods. You have to apply the concept. What is the operation? I want to deposit. What the
me name? Deposit. Uh I want to withdraw. What the me name? Withdrawer. You should not remember. You should apply common
sense. I want to get student number. Get student number. I want to get
employee number. Get employee number. I want to know is the student exist or
not. Is exist. Okay. like this you should have to apply
some coding standard common sense there okay I created a thread just by creating
thread is your job completed no I have to start thread of execution how can we
start whom you want to start th1 then what I have to write th1 start so tell me
thread of execution is started now final conclusion is what is the chapter you
are learning multithreading to to learn multi-threading chapter what is the meaning of this one first you have to
create our own thread multi-threading by default JVM has provided inbuilt one
thread if you run our programs by using that thread all programs are executed
sequentially when all programs are executed sequentially program execution taking lot of time sometime is also
wasted we want fast execution then we have to opt for what multi-threading I
want to construct this house only one worker I have employed Then how many years it will take to
complete? Now what are you doing? Then you started shouting at the builder
provide more workers so that building construction will be completed fast. Uh
now tell me when more workers more fast. One worker
worker is nothing but thread. One worker one thread slow more workers fast. So
how to create one more worker? How to create one more thread? By using predefined class called thread in C and
C++. If you want to develop multi-threading lot of code you have to develop. But Java it is got simplified.
So we have a predefined library called class thread. Create thread class object. Then thread object created in
heap area. On the thread object called start method. Thread of execution is created in Java stacks area. Then what
the next step in this thread? In this thread, in this userdefined thread, I
have to execute my logic. How to execute my logic? That we'll see in tomorrow
class. Everyone understand? Right? So, by tomorrow you are coming to class. I
am requesting you all today and tomorrow take your time complete
what do you call Iost chapter first page to last page. Everything you have to
revise. If I miss one or two pages, you have to read practice yourself in your system. While practicing, if you got any
doubt, you can ask me. I'll explain. And backup videos also I'm sharing to your Google classroom. If you find any
difficulty, watch that video. Okay. Thank you. That's all for today class. See you all tomorrow.
Send me WhatsApp message now. Not in chart window.

