ript


Right. Good morning everyone.
Last class we are understanding uh how to create multiple custom threads.
We learn how to create multiple custom threads. Also we learn how to execute same logic and how to execute same logic
with the different inputs in a Google classroom. I have uploaded
the programs I have explained in the class along with the material.
Uh if you observe in each file I have typed the explanation notes also.
In this chapter we will learn executing multiple task at a time concurrently to
complete project execution fast in less time. Hence in this chapter we will learn how to create custom thread, how
to execute that thread concurrently with the with other threads and also we will learn how to control the threads
execution. Up to now we have learned uh executing multiple tasks sequentially
by calling all these task methods in main method one after one. The problem here is then solution below program
shows the problem. Then second program
what is a thread? Okay. And next what is a multi-threading? Why multi-threading?
Advantage of multi-threading. What is a custom thread? How can we create custom thread? How can we run our logic in
custom thread? Where is run method is available. Then what we must do to place logic in run method. How many ways we
can override run method? Two ways. And the logic run is a super interface.
Public wide run. Uh now this is a abstract method available in run class
thread implements run. uh implicitly threaded class contains runnable interface variable which receives the
runnable implementation class object as a argument and story then using that object to call run method. Many students
and faculties are feeling inside thread class run method doesn't have logic that is wrong inside thread class run method
we have logic calling run method of runnable implementation class then only
logic will be executed. Okay. Uh so how many relation thread class contain with runnable interface? Two relations. One
easier relation. Number two has a relation. It is having easy relation for
implementing run method to be called by JVM. Whenever we call start method, JVM
implicitly called runnable interface run method to have that run method in our class. Okay. Thread class is
implementing runnable also. It contain has a relation for calling run method of
the past implementation class object. Okay. Then how many ways we can create our own class? Two ways extending from
thread and implementing from runnable interface. Then how many ways we can create a custom thread? If ask a
question creating a custom thread means creating thread object starting its lo starting it and running logic in it.
Hence to override run and creating a custom thread we have three approaches. three approaches. How many approaches we
learn? Two. But we have three approaches. Extending thread class, implementing runnable interface and
implementing callable interface. So now first approach we are learning uh public
class thread multi-thread thread TH1 equal to new thread TH1. Start. What is the problem in this approach? The
problem in this approach is logic is not executed. Okay. So problem in the
previous approach uh logic is not executed. Approach number one extending
from threaded class. Three approaches are there. Class method, run method, main method, start method. Uh next
approach number two. What approach number two? Implementing runnable interface. How many of how many steps
are there? Four steps. Uh then what is the important point? We cannot call start method directly by using runnable.
I should pass my runnable object as a argument to thread class. Uh then next assignment I give.
Okay. Develop only thread program. print 1 to 2021 and uh second one also we discussed with
the implementing runnable interface same task and then which approach is best how many way we can override run method and
create custom thread two approaches which approach is best extend thread or implementing runnable
which approach is best extending thread or implementing runnable implementing runnable is best approach why
implementing runnable is best approach extending thread approach it will not make your class extending from other
classes. Multiple inheritance is not supported. Uh implementing runnable supports multiple inheritance. Okay. Uh
then next single thread model application. Okay. Then multi-thread model application.
Okay. And then next remaining all examples are same. There is no much important points here. Okay. Uh now
first firstly you know interaction notes are already I have uploaded. So in material already there. If you want
roads also you can read from here. Okay. Now let's try to understand today the next points.
Today we are trying to understand thread life cycle states.
Thread life cycle states. Every thread is having some states like how you are
having states born then child then a first kid child whatever and then
next boy girl and next what youngster and then father mother and then
grandfather grandmother and finally dead right so burn to dead similarly every
thread is also having states uh let me write that states as my thread.
My thread number what
extends thread. Oh, one second. I think one more program pending.
Yeah. How to execute different logic in the custom threads. So yesterday we
completed how to execute same logic. Now we need to understand how to execute
different logics. If you want to execute different logics you need one thread or
I mean one subclass or multiple subasses one run method can support only one
logic but you want to execute different logics. So to have different logics I need to write override run method
multiple times. So to override run weather multiple times I need two separate subclasses
two separate subasses uh here in the run method we have to write logic uh I want to develop uh in
place of my thread I'm taking it as add thread and this I'm taking it as what
sub thread add thread and sub thread for int i = 1
i less and I less than or equals to 20 I ++
uh here I want to add int sum
equal to zero then what you write sum plus=
I correct what is this operator
what is this operator compound assignment operator sum + i. If
you want to add the number to a variable value and want to store the result in
the same variable in the same variable what I have to take sum plus i in place
of that we can use compound assignment operator and next I'm printing that value here system.out routed print and
double quotes addition
plus sum each value I'm print each sum value I'm
printing next same for loop
same for loop I'm writing in subtraction what do you write here difference
plus or minus minus and This is subtraction.
Okay. Uh now observe. So what happened? I have I want to execute two different
logics. Adding numbers and subtracting numbers. So to execute these two logics
I need two separate threads. So I require one subclass with run method
overriding another subclass with run method override. Then thread life cycle states here. Sorry, not thread life
cycle states. This this is multiple threads
with a different logic. And now here what should I do? I have to create those
threads and start the logic. Right?
Can I write like this? New add thread dot start
New sub thread
dot start right is it possible to write think yes possible why you want to call
start method by using thread object thread object means variable or new
keyword new keyword new keyword is object creation this object dot start then what is the problem if I write the
code like this this new thread object I cannot use further in the next lines of the code. Yes, I don't want I want use
only one time. If you want to use only one time, variable is not required. Already in the variable chapter we discussed. Okay. Now, what is the flow
of execution totally in this program? How many threads are there? Three
threads are there. One main thread, then add thread and subthread. First thread
execution started. Main thread, main start. Uh sub add thread is immediately
executed or ready to execute. Then sub thread also ready to execute. Then main
end main method completed means main thread is completed. Once main thread is completed then JVM will shift to which
thread add thread. Then in add thread for loops are running. After few iterations completed then control will
go to a sub thread. After subread few iterations completed coming back to what? Add thread. Control F11. So now
two threads are executed concurrent. Look at there. Main start main end. Subtraction addition subtraction
addition. So both are executing concurrent. Run one more time.
Is plus equal to running very fast. Seems to be good.
same.
Okay. Finally, we learn how to execute multiple threads
um with the same logic. with the same logic with a different inputs different
logic. Okay, both operations we learn. Now already this program also I have uploaded yesterday only
different logic already developed. Now let me try to understand this point. In
our first day of multi-threading chapter, in the first day of multi-threading
chapter, we want to execute exa example class methods concurrently.
Remember example class contain how many methods? M1, M_sub_2, M3. Three methods
are there. I want to execute these three methods. Then we call those three methods sequentially in the uh test
class main method. Then tell me when M1 method execution is passed does M2 M3
has a chance to execute? No. Okay. I want to write here some extra messages.
Now look at here M1 start main start M1 start M1 execution is passed for user to
enter input cursor is blinking here observe here red color mark is what program still running now I'm entering
some value and press enter M1 end then M2 start M2 end M3 start M3 end main
Why we come to this chapter multi- threading when one method execution is
passed I don't want other methods to pass I want to continue them to execute if you want to execute those threads to
sorry if you want execute other methods to execute when other threads are other
methods are passed you you have to call all the three methods in one thread are separate threads separate threads then
what I have to do I should write here separate thread I'm writing M1 thread extend thread as many methods you want
to execute. as many methods you want to execute those many threads. M1 thread what you
write M2 thread and then M3 thread. M3 thread uh in M1 thread what I should
write method inside run method what I should do? I should call M1 method. Uh
tell me now one thread of execution is started M1 method is loaded running in its own path. Right? Uh same way here I
have to override run method example M2. What happened here? M2 method execution
sorry separate thread is started. Uh M2 method execution is going in separate path. Now tell me next I am overriding
this run method here. Uh here what method I have to call? M3 separate separate thread set third path is
created executing in its own path. So tell me totally how many independent paths of executions are created? Three.
Okay then I want to start them. Okay. I want to start them without starting they are not executed. Class
here main method inside main method I should write new M1 thread dot start and
next new M2 thread dot start new M3 thread dot start and tell me all the
three threads are executed. M1 start now look at that when M1 execution is
passed. When M1 method execution is passed, M2 M3 methods execution is passed or
completed. Uh tell me understand the benefit of multi-threading chapter. So when we have separate paths of execution
when one method execution is passed, JVM will not waste its time. It is immediately shifting to other thread of
execution and complete their execution. Then M1 execution is passed for the user
to enter input. And now here I'm giving input then M1 method end. So multi-threading chapter is giving the
benefit. We can execute multiple tasks fast. When one thread execution is passed, JVM will not wait for other
thread. JVM will not wait for this thread to complete. Immediately it will move to other thread. So whenever you
are executing independent tasks don't use a single thread model approach. Use
what? Multi-thread model approach. Okay. Next question I'm asking. Try to think and answer. Test. Up to now we have
learned Up to now we have learned how to override run method. Now I am trying to
override start method. Let's see is it allowed or not. Class my thread 11
extends a thread.
Okay. Up to now we learn how to override run method. Now let's see start method.
Can I override or only people tell me is it possible to override start method or not? Guess and tell. You are not the
start method developer. I am not the start method developer. But we have to guess. We have the knowledge and guess,
guess and tell me. Is it possible to override start method?
Huh? Possible or not possible?
Come on. Come on. Possible or not possible? Not possible? How possible?
Class contains start method. You want to override other class method in your class. Okay. Uh possible or not
possible? Other class method want to override in your class. If you say possible, when is
it possible? If you say not possible, when is it not possible? If you want to override, first of all,
the class must not be final. Okay, thread class is not final. We are creating subclass. The next
that method also must not be final. If start method is final, we cannot
override. Start method is not final, we can override. Which is multi- threading?
Final variable, final class, final method. Remember polymorphism chapter in
polymorphism one subtopic. If you remember polymorphism multi- threading chapter is GGB easy. Uh now tell me
start. Look at there. Did I get any error? No. That means start method is
hey start method is final non-final. So we can override system.out output
printer and uh double quotes start
inside main method I'm creating my thread object my thread
MT1 equal to new my thread MT1 start here system outprint double
quotes main start and main end uh so tell
If I override start method, is there any effect? Is there any compile time error? No. Is there any runtime error? No. No
compile time error. No runtime error. And then is there any other effect? What the effect?
Sorry, run method will not be executed. Okay. Let me override run method also. Uh let
me override run method also. System dot outprint and uh double quotes run. Why
you are sailing rammed not executed?
Okay. What is not happening? What what is not
happening? So that run method is not executed. Thread is not uh that is answer your
what is the problem if you override start method custom thread is not created custom thread creation logic is
available in red class if you override start method then logic executed from
your class in your class start method doesn't have th creation logic
because it doesn't have thic creation logic then what happen method is not executed what is the output you will get
Now main start uh start method is now executed sequentially start and then
main control F main start start main
run method is not executed. So if I ask a question can I override start method
what is your answer? Yes. Any if I override start method is there any effect? Yes. What is the effect? Custom
thread is not created. Run method is not executed. Then what is the solution to
this problem? H now first of all is it recommended to override start method.
Come on everyone is it recommended to override start method or not recommended? Not recommended. Wonderful
answer. If not recommended some micro system might have declared that method as a final.
If start method is not recommended to override some micro system might have
already declared it as a final right not declared as a final what the meaning of it if you want to override
now think when should I override when should not override
or if you override what the right procedure to override
think and tell me yes you said that we can override run method Sun micro system
told us if you want you can override or no problem. Then now you decide what is the right procedure to override. And
next when should I override? What the right procedure to override? You want custom thread or not? Even though I have
overridden I want custom thread. If I override start method is executed only from our class not executed from super
class. Overriding logic is available in which class? Super class. Correct my
point? It is available in super class. I want to over I want to override but I want execute super class logic also.
What should I do?
Oh why runnable? We are going back again. I want to override start method then
there is no link to runnable. Uh I want to override start method. I
want execute my logic also. I want to execute superclass logic. What to do?
What to do? Polymorphism chapter. Simple
polymorphism chapter
following the start method from thread class. How?
If we create object of thread class, then where is the link to our object? They have become two different objects.
You want to start the thread for thread object or your object our object. So if you create a thread class object here
and call start method new thread object new thread of execution then there is no link to our thread. I want to create
start thread of execution for my class my thread class. Huh? Someone is telling
here
why
if you create variable of super class call start method control will go to super class with this keyword current
object is subass it will come to subclass now in variable and in
static method case We can differentiate them from super class to subclass but non-static method we cannot differentiate huh any other option
super start what I have right super keyword if you
when you override a method in the subclass and call that method it is executed
logic only from subclass if you want to execute logic from subclass and also in
super class you have to call the method By using super dot remember the project student person project two string method
available in super class two string method available in subclass I want to execute two string method logic in both
super class and subclass what we did in the project we have written superstring plus our own logic we have written right
uh now finally tell me I want to override start method in my application
I want execute my own logic and also I want execute the start method available
in the super class then what I should do override start method and also place
superstart method so that your logic executed also super class logic executed
custom thread created run method is execute everyone understand uh now the question
sir what is the need of overriding start method okay I understood I understood
the right procedure to override override start method also called super start that is the right procedure Okay, what
the need of overriding start method? I want to execute some logic when class is
loaded into JVM compulsory. Where I should write that logic?
I want to execute some logic compulsory when class is loaded into JVM. Where I
should place that logic? Static block. I want execute some logic compulsory when
object is created. where I should place non-static block or in construct I want
execute some logic compulsory when control is come out of the try block
finally block I want to execute some logic compulsory
just before thread is started from a class how many threads I can create
multiple multiple threads I can create now I wanted to execute some logic
compulsory just before just before thread started then I have to write that
logic repeatedly every time when start method is called now before start method
is called every time before start method is called I have to place that logic in all places in the project okay today
tomorrow day after tomorrow I can remember but later some point of the time definitely I will forget also other
developers who join in the project newly He will not know that automation. Then tell me is it good idea placing the
logic manually everywhere or is it a good idea making it as automated? Making it as automated that is where static
block non-static block finally blocks came into picture. Uh now the same point try to answer I wanted to place the
logic compulsory to execute just before custom thread is started. Then what the right
place? Start me for all threads to start. You are calling start method now. Then place the logic one time in the
start method. But where start method is available in thread class override start method. Place your logic here. And then
call also super start. Should I place super start at end? Not required. Begin also you can place and also you can
place in the middle also you can place. Uh when you want to execute this logic I want to execute logic before custom
thread started. then place before super start. I want to execute this logic after custom thread started. Then place
super dot first and then logic. I want to execute some logic before custom thread started some logic after custom
thread started. Then write start method in the middle and write two logics here. Okay. Start
started start. Okay. So now you have to write logic
inside middle. So this way you have to plan your project. Everyone understand overriding start method very important
topic. Compulsory interview will ask if is if you want to test your knowledge on multi- threading definitely this
question also you will face. We know we can override run method. Can we also override start method? What is your
answer? Yes. When should I override start method? If you want to execute some logic compulsory before custom
thread started or after custom thread started then we should override logic in the start method. And also we must call
super dot start method and so that super class start method logic executed custom
thread created and run method executed in the custom thread. So this is the story about start method. And now one
more last question test 18 up to now we have learned creating
custom thread from main thread. Now is it possible to create custom thread from
other custom thread? Is it possible to create one custom thread from other custom thread? Yes.
Now create class my thread.
Plus my thread 11 extends from thread.
Run system.out print and double quotes
my thread 11 run
start. Okay. Now I am creating one more custom
thread. My thread 12 extends thread. Uh here what is this thread start 12
run start run end. Up to now what we did system.out.print
and double ports main start main end. Here we are creating
my thread 11 MT1 equal to new my thread
11 MT1 start. Uh now one custom thread create. Now I wanted to create one more
custom thread here. What you did my thread 12 MT2 equal to new my thread 12
MT2 start. So first custom thread, second custom thread you created from
main thread. Who is the parent thread? Now main thread main thread is the parent and two child threads are
created. What is my question? I want to create one custom thread from another
custom thread. What should I do? Simple. Move these two lines inside run method.
Earlier you create for loop inside where main method. Can I write for loop inside the run method? Yes, earlier you create
you called methods inside where main method. Can I call methods now inside run method? Yeah. Then what happened? Uh
earlier logic executed main thread. When you call that logic inside may run method logic executed in custom thread.
So if you want to create one custom thread from another custom thread, what should I do? Place that custom thread
logic creation statement, custom thread object creation and call start method in another custom thread run method. That's
all. So tell me what is the enter flow of execution? First JVM executes which method? Main method control comes to
main method. Inside main method main start uh custom thread is ready to execute.
Then main end JVM shifted toward custom thread. Inside custom thread another
custom thread created ready to start. Then uh my thread 11 completed JVM
shifting toward my thread wall. So who is the parent thread for my thread 12
main thread? My thread 11 my thread 11 is the parent.
So this is the way you have to write the code. All catch my point. So uh how can we
create a custom thread? We can create one custom thread from another custom thread. Create other thread other custom
thread object and call start method in our custom thread run method. So all these are the important interview
questions you have to know all 18 programs already yesterday only I have uploaded hope you will practice once
enter your if if you wanted to test your knowledge on multi-threading all
questions whatever I have explained 18 points definitely will ask so you should have all the points knowledge some
points are there in material some points are not there I already uploaded every okay so with this we completed the first
stage of multi-threading that This multi-thread programming multi-thread
programming is completed. Now on this multi-thread programming we have three levels of further discussion. Let us
start the second level of multi-threading programming. Test 19
thread life cycle. Uh all people are following understand up to now. Any questions?
Okay. Now shall I continue or stop? Continue.
Uh what the topic we are learning life cycle states. Every third is having five life cycle
states. How many states are five first state
new second state
ready to run
ready to run. Third state running.
Fourth state nonrunnable.
This is called ready to run or runable.
Nonrunnable. Fifth state dead. So totally how many
states are there? Five states. What are the five states? New, ready to run or
runnable, running, nonrunnable, dead. These are the five states.
When thread will be in the new state. When you create new object my thread 13
MT1 equal to new my thread 30. When you
create thread object why error come
sometimes eclipse is losing it. Okay we are mistake.
uh tell me when we create new thread object the thread will be in the new
state how can we get the state of the thread I want to get the state of the thread
names how can I get for getting the name of the thread objects we have a
predefined method called public return type is thread dot state method name is
get state okay what the method name Public threaded state get state sir.
What is this threaded state? All these are what names. Name is generally what?
String. But now these names are not strings. These names are these names are
threaded dot state. What is this threaded dot state? These are the constant names or not? Are these names
time to time changing or not changing? Not change. Course names time to time change? No. Day week day names time to
time changing? No. Bus stop names are time to time changing? No. Whenever the
names are fixed, those names are called named constants. What they are called?
Those named constants you want to create as a group. You have to use a concept called what? Enum. What concept? Enum.
Enum. You have to use in Java in the class thread in the class thread we have
we have inner enum the name of this how to create enum by using enum state okay
I have a class thread inside a class thread we have a name called what enum uh we have enum what the purpose of what
the purpose of class is used for representing real world object by
storing its values using variables by implementing its operation by using methods. Further we create instance for
representing each object and we store that object values perform operation for that object. That is the purpose of the
class. Then what is the purpose of enum? Enum is used for representing set of
named constants of an object. This thread object contain named constants.
What are the named constants? Number one state name new comma. Number two run.
Number three timed waiting. Number four waiting. Number five.
Number five blocked. Number six dead.
The names you have written there the names you are writing here are different. Yes. Those are the old names.
These are the new names. Okay. From Java 5 version onwards, Java
5 version onwards, olden days up to Java 1.2 to 1.4 some micro systemystem use.
These are the names. Uh these are not the names of thread. These are the names of process. You know in operating system
we have process. Process has a life cycle states. In MCA might be you have studied operating system subject has a
process. Process has a life cycle states. The same process life cycle states as taken by Sun micros system and
explained but later in Java 5 version after enum topic is introduced then they
have given named constants uh thread names as what named constants these are
the named constant named constant is nothing but the name is fixed constant what the how many named constants are
there how many states are there for the thread now six states what the six states new runnable primary waiting
waiting blocked dead. Five states are there. Now when thread will be in a new
state whenever thread object is created whenever thread object is created thread
will be in the new state through the system.out.print you call MT1.get name sorry get state
MT1.get state observe when you call get state method what is the state name will come here new.
Okay. If enter ask a question, I have created thread object. Now the thread is in which state? Thread is in new state.
Okay. Now I am calling MT1 start. When I call MT1 start thread is moving from new
state to ready to run state. Now uh then thread is in which state? Olden days
people are calling it as a ready to run state. Uh but ready to run state is not there. We have only one state. What is
that? Runnable. Okay. Now look at the control F11 what you are getting now runable. After calling start method we
are getting what thread is in ready to run state. Sorry. Yeah ready to run state. That is also called what?
Runnable. Then control will go to which state now? Run. After calling start method when main method execution is
passed or when main method execution is completed thread is going to where now run method. I don't want to complete I
want to pass. How to pass the thread execution? By using what?
By using what? Sleep method. Thread dot sleep off. Thread dot sleep off. I'm writing here. I'm writing here 1 th000
minutes. 1 th00and seconds. Sorry. 1 th00and seconds. Whenever call whenever you call the start method, you should
handle the exception interrupted exception. I'll explain you later. Now tell me first stop what I did. I created
thread object and call get state. What state? We got new. I call I call start method. Then thread is moved from new
state to which state ready to run state. What the name I got? Runnable. Then control is coming to down. Now if you
want execute run method, I should either complete main thread or I have to pass the main thread. What am I doing here?
Passing which thread? Main thread. For what purpose? For all MT2 execute.
for allowing MT1 to execute.
Uh now whenever MT1 execute control is coming to where now run method double
quotes run start. Okay run start. Uh next run end tell me between run start
to run end I am writing system outprint system.out
outer print and double quotes what I should call get state I can I cannot
call MT1 dot get state MT1 is the local variable of main how that MT1 will come
here this dot how to call this dot directly we can call get state observe what is I'm getting now run start
runnable runnable what is the actual state name is running from Java 5
version onwards both ready to run state and running state are calling it as what
Runnable. Okay. Now I come to know when thread object is created. Thread is in
which state? New. When we call start method, thread is in which state? Runnable. When I pass the main thread,
thread is moving into run method. Custom thread. Custom thread is now running. Running state is also called what?
Runnable.
Okay. It is also called what? Runnable. Now tell when we will get timed waiting
state, waiting state, blocked state. Waiting and blocked state I cannot show you now. We need some more knowledge.
But I can show you timed waiting state. Whenever thread execution is passed,
whenever thread execution is passed, thread do sleep. I am passing the thread
for 2,000 milliseconds. Okay. Thread is executed for 2,000
milliseconds. uh whenever thread execution is passed tell me JVM is
moving to where main thread now when this thread execution is pass JVM
go to where main thread inside the main thread I am calling thread MT1 get state
again when you call get state again tell me by the time when you call MT1 get
state thread is in new stata ready to run statea
uh running state sleeping stata Sleeping state that sleeping state is for what?
Timed waiting. Why is it sleeping? For time is to complete. Thread is waiting
for time to complete. Observe you will get uh runnable. After runnable what you
got? Time waiting. So finally try to answer totally how many states are there for a thread? Six states. What is that?
New runnable time waiting waiting block and dead. Uh when thread will be start
when thread is in new state after thread object created when thread is in runnable state after start method call
after start method call either in main method or in a custom thread run method
what we'll get now we will get what runable state then when the thread will be in the time waiting state if the
thread inside the run method when you call sleep method and tell me thread is
passed here waiting for this time to complete now then what we call it as time motivating state. So when run
method is execution started thread is in which state? Runnable state. When sleep method is called thread is inside which
state here time motivating state it is waiting for
it is waiting for time time to complete 2,000 millconds time to complete. Then if you want to get this time waiting
state can I get the time state in the run method main method? Main method when you are sleeping can you answer to the
people? No. Who has to answer? Your side friend who is not sleeping can answer. So who is the side friend? Main thread.
So main thread now control is coming here. We call what? MT1.get state. Then what you got? Time waiting. Uh tell me
when the thread will be in the dead state after run method completed. After run
method completed then what you got? Dead state. So if you want to allow run method completed I have to pass I have
to pass uh what do you call main thread again I should allow go to the run
complete the run and come back so I'm calling threads sleep method again here for 3,000 milliseconds then meanwhile
what happened tell me run method is complete runable time waiting run end after 3,000 millconds main also
completed when run completed control come back to main and here what I'm going to call MT1 get state if Call
MT1.get state. What the state we will get here? Dead state. Control F11. Look at there. After run end in main thread,
we will get terminated. So this dead state is named not as a dead. They call
it as what? Terminator. Completed.
Okay. Totally how many states are there? Five states. Let me explain. Six states. Let me explain the same one with a
diagram.
Instead of drawing the diagram again, I want to use existing diagram. You will
easily understand
observe this diagram. First I have what state? New. Then what state? Ready to
run. Then what state? Running. Then what state? Blocked.
Once again, I want another diagram.
Look at this.
First I created my thread object. Then it is entered in which state? New
state. Thread zero available in the new state.
on this thread object when it is a new state when you call start method thread is moving to where ready to run state it
is also called what Q then
when this ready to run state has a chance to execute only when already available maint
execution is either passed or completed. So first of all concentrate on how many
states are there five state what the first state new state right side what state is there ready to run state ready
to run state right side what is there running right side non-runnable non-runnable states are having totally
how many three states timed waiting waiting and what blocked
and also we have what is the state terminated so totally we have five states out outer loop five states okay
uh Then when you create the my thread object first what is happened? Thread is
entered into new state. From the new state when I call start method thread is entered into ready to run state. Also
call it as what? Runnable. When already running thread execution is passed then
it is coming back to where ready to run state. Then th0 entered into running
state. Then what? Now the thread is in which state? Running state. is also called what? Runnable state. Inside
thread ipon zero. When you call sleep method or when you call join method or
when you call weight method. How many methods are there? Three. Sleep, with time, join, with time, wait, with time.
Any of the three methods with the time you call? Then the thread is entered into which state? Time and waiting
state. If you call join and wait without time,
I can call join and wait without a time. If you call join and wait without time the thread is entered into which state
waiting state inside run method you call one synchronized method then the thread
is entered into block state. When create object thread is in the new state. When
you call start method thread is in ready to run state. When thread got its occurrence when thread got its chance to
execute then thread is in running state. Means when run method logic is running
when control is inside the run method then uh thread is in running state
inside run method when you call sleep or join or wait method thread is in
non-runnable time waiting or waiting or blocked state after time completed the
thread is coming back from the non-runnable state to which state ready to run state and wait for its turn. uh
then when running state is become free then it will enter and execute its logic. After main method completed main
thread is entered into a terminated state. After run method completed thread complete come into where now terminated
state. Everyone understand? So this is the life cycle state diagram. So totally how many states are there? Six states.
What the six states? New runnable time waiting waiting block and terminated.
These state names are new names of old names new names. All these new names if you want to get what is the method I
have to call get state method I have to call. Get state method returns these named constant names for us. Uh how to
write the program like this. First you have to create the object call get state
method. It returns what? New call start method and call get state method returns what? Runnable. This runnable is what?
Runnable. Ready to run.
And when you call sleep method in the main thread, main thread execution is passed. Control will go to run method.
Inside run method, if you call get run here, what is the coming? Runnable. What is this runnable? Running runnable. And
when you call sleep method, thread is entered into a time waiting state. Run. When run method execution is passed,
control is going to main thread. Here in the main thread, if you call get state method, what you got? Time waiting. Now
tell me this time waiting state is of which state? MT1. Here MT1 is in
sleeping state. Okay. Uh next I call sleep of 3,000
again on the main thread. Again what are you doing here? Pausing
pausing main thread for allowing M1 to resume
and continue to run. Okay. Uh tell me when it is
continue to run at some point of the time execution completed. Whenever run
end uh thread is entered into where terminated state.
How to get terminated state. If somebody dead can you go and ask him follow did you dead? No no no. Who can say other
person? Who is the other person? Main in the main thread you have to call MT1.get
state. Then what you will get here? Dead state terminated. Who is it terminated? MT1 is completed. If MT1 is completed
then we get what? Terminated state. Everyone understand right? So this is the program on what thread life cycle
states related store. Please refer material in material. These points and notes I
gave check once.
Okay, now we understood thread life cycle states and how to get each state
of the thread. If you remember last class when I call start method multiple times, we got
exception. Remember, if you call start method two times on same object, we got exception. Read the
exception of illegal thread state exception. So tell me now in which state you are allowed to
call start method on an object only when it is in new state. If thread is moved
out of the new state and if the thread is available any one of the other states that time if you call start method you
will get illegal thread state exception. Are people understand? It's very very very important point. Okay. Uh next. Now
I want to go for next points. When you create threads in the JVM,
when you create threads in the JVM
threads are executed as part of these states. Okay. Now I want you answer one
question. When you create my thread empty1 equal to new my thread, new
thread is born and entered into new state with the name thread -0.
Is this thread immediately come into the ready to run state? No. When it will
come to ready to run state when I call start method. Okay. When I call start method, thread come into the ready to
run state immediately. From the ready to run state, will it immediately go into the running state? No. When thread will
come into ready to run state. Sorry, when come thread will come into running state and execute its run method. Only
when running state is free. Now running state is nothing but processor. Who will
execute the process? Processor. When processor is free then only this thread
get a chance to come inside. When this thread get a chance to come inside only if the currently running thread
execution is passed or completed. When the currently running thread execution
is paused, there is a algorithm. Threads are executed based on the algorithm. Threads
are executed in two algorithms. Threads are executed by following two algorithms. Number one, thread
scheduling algorithm. Number two, what? Thread priority. What is the meaning of thread scheduling? Threads are executed
upon the time. Threads are executed upon the time. Okay. Every thread entered
into running state will be given some time slice within the given time slice. If the
thread's execution not completed, the thread execution is passed, send back to
where ready to run state asking it to wait there. Then already available waiting thread
will be taken into the running state.
Okay. uh available in the running state and this thread is also provided what some time slice. So within the time
slice if execution not completed again this thread is the sent back to what ready to run state asking it to wait and
taken other waiting thread and again give the time slice to it then within the time slice if it execution is
completed then send the thread to where dead state and then thread is free
processor is free other waiting thread will be taken. uh this process of executing the thread by giving the time
is called what? Thread scheduuling. What we call it as thread scheduling. So
threads are executed on scheduling. Scheduling means assign the time. Yeah.
Now tell me is our class given a scheduling or not? What the schedule? 9 to 11. Within 9 to 11 if the syllabus is
not completed again come to tomorrow cannot continue further again tomorrow.
9 to 11 again time slice given syllabus not completed again continue next day.
So tell me our batch is the scheduled okay like daily 9 to 11 it will keep on
running. So threads are executed on which algorithm thread scheduling
always threads are executed based on scheduling. Uh within the thread scheduling if the threads are not
completed uh now again again it is repeated. So tell me up to now we have developed the programs to work on what
thread scheduling only one second I wanted to
take the predefined program so that time will be saved for typing any objection
objection is over
Already
this program we have developed.
Uh remember this program we have custom thread.
Uh we have custom thread class my thread 14 extensive thread inside run method we
develop for loop as a task two. Uh inside the main thread we created for
loop as a task one printing 1 to 20 2021. Did I use any sleep method passing the
thread? No. Then threads are executed continuously or concurrently.
First which thread started run thread is continuously executed or
time given look at there only 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 iterations are executed program
execution is passed that means within the given time run method unable to complete its execution. So JVM passes
this custom thread send to where ready to run state. Then main thread for loop started unable
to complete within the time passed. Send to ready to run state taken custom thread. Custom thread execution started
not completed. This time giving more time or less time less time. Uh main more less time run less time. Main more
time uh it taking full time to complete its execution. Then main terminated custom thread execution terminated.
Understand the thread life cycle states and algorithm which algorithm it is working on thread scheduling. Thread
scheduleuling means thread is executed based on given time within the time if not completed then program exec thread
execution is passed. Send to ready to run state taking already available waiting state. Waiting thread. Uh now
threads are executed on thread scheduling by applying the next concept
called what priority. What is priority? A priority is an
integer number. The thread priority is between 1 to 10.
The minimum priority is one. Maximum priority is 10. And five is called what?
Non priority. One is the min priority. Five is the non priority. 10 is called
what? max period. These three are the constant variables, constant fields,
public static final variables created inside thread class with these values 1,
5 and 10. Every thread has a default priority. Tell me what the default
priority is it one or five or 10.
When I ask a question why you are reading that answer my dear fellows
sometimes you will irritate me like anything I'm asking question like a statues you
sit silently answer I told three priorities what the default
priority wrong answer that's why I ask you to reply
if you give wrong answer and if I correct you will remember like a statue silently sitting and watching the screen
in the enter you'll commit mistakes nasty fellows you are tell me what the
default priority wrong I'm saying again you have to tell what the default priority
what is your what is your ai how much properties you have how much
money you have zero hey if you have zero how are you in
Hyderabad if you have zero rupee How can you be in
Hyderabad? Who is paying a hostel fees? Father, then your father properties are
your properties. Somebody come and ask you what is your
father mother properties are your properties. How much the money they earn that is your money. So tell me what is
the default priority of a trader? Parent thread priority who is the parent
for thread zero. Parent is nothing but here super class subclass. No here super
class subclass not priority. Priority means from which it is sorry parent means from which it is born. Uh tell me
thread ipon zero born from which thread? Main thread. So who is the parent? Main. Main thread priority is thread on zero
priority. The default priority of main thread is five.
The default priority of the custom thread is not fire. It's a parent thread priority because every custom thread is
created from main thread. The default priority of custom thread is also five. For example, in the last example I told
can I create prior can I create one custom thread from another custom thread? Uh can I change the priority of
the custom thread? Yes. Default assigned pi from the parent main. Can I change the priority? Yes. If I change the
priority of custom thread, if I create second custom thread from the first custom thread, whose priority changed?
Second custom thread priority is also same as the first custom thread. Now
then how can we get the existing priority? How can I set the exist? How can I set the new priority? We can get
existing priority and also we can set new priority to the custom thread by using the thread class methods. What the
methods priority is a variable. Priority is a variable field. It is a
non-stantic field. It hold the thread priority value. Tell me student number is a field. It holds student number one.
Now like that threat object internally contain priority variable. That priority
variable contains default value what five. I don't like change the five to 7. 7 to 10. Then what I have to do? I
should call set priority by passing what? New priority. What the parameter of set priority? Int. Can I pass any int
range value or not? Yes. But according to thread programming, priority value int value can be any range of between 1
to 10 only. Inside set priority method, there is a if condition. If new priority
less than zero or greater than 10, it will throw illegal argument exception. So we have to pass the priority only
between 1 to 10. Okay. Now the question, I have two threads created from the main
thread. Thread zero and thread one. What the default priority of both the threads? Five inherited from main. After
that both two threads created main thread execution completed enter into dead state. Processor is free. Now the
processor has to look into ready to run state and take the threads available and
execute. Everyone tell me which thread will be execute. Thread zero now. Thread one now.
From the ready to run state when multiple threads are available which
thread will be taken first. It is depending on priority.
High priority thread will taken first, low priority taken next. That means high
priority thread is first executed then low priority thread. Understand? If both
ths are having same priority
correct first come first execute don't show your talent already I mentioned
here what is that only two algorithms why are you bringing
the third algorithm JVM execute threads only on two
algorithm thread scheduling and thread pre there is no first come first serve algorithm that is also one algorithm
operating system algorithm but Java doesn't follow the third algorithm it pick randomly
it takes the thread randomly if both threads are having same priority it takes one of the thread randomly and
execute so look at here always thread scheduleuler executes a high priority
thread first then low priority threads if both threads priority same thread scheduleuler picks one of the threads
randomly So whenever you are planning to execute threads in your JVM you must
have a awareness of how many how many algorithms two algorithm thread scheduling and thread priority always
threads are executed based on scheduling. Interview ask question when I call start method is a thread
immediately started its execution. No, when the custom thread execution started
depending on its thread scheduling already running thread execution is
passed or completed then only this thread get a chance to execute. When already running thread execution is
passed that is depending on the thread scheduleuler assigned time. Everyone understand? Okay. Now let us try to
understand thread priority algorithm program which thread will execute it first.
Now look at here program is easy you can understand let's not waste time by typing okay
I have same program class my thread run method with 20 to one
inside main method how many threads I created two threads what The name of this first thread
thread 0. What the name of the second thread? Thread 1. What the priority of
this first thread? Huh? Five. What the priority of second thread? Five. Both
threads are having same priority. Prove that MT1 priority. How can I get priority? Get priority. M2 priority.
What the priority?
MT1 priority five. MT2 priority also five. Is it possible to change the priorities? Yes. How can we change? By
calling set priority methods. By calling set priority methods. Uh I
call set priority of seven and set priority of nine. Uh tell me after
calling set priorities thread priority got changed then what
the new priority of MT1 7 new priority of nine second MT2 is nine who is the
highest highest priority thread MT2 uh next can I set the priority as you
like with a different numbers no negative number can I give no can I give
more than 10 no if I give negative number we will get illegal argument ment
exception. If I give more than 10 also, we will get illegal argument exception.
Okay. Then what should I do? I must pass the priority only between 1 to 10. Okay.
Then I want to start the threads. Uh MT1 started
where it is available ready to run state. Visualize the diagram.
Huh? MT2 start available in ready to run state. Okay. Now tell when threads are
in ready to run state after that main complete main start main end. After main
end now processor is free then JBM looking into ready to run state. How
many threads are waiting there? What the two? Thread zero thread one with the same priority or different priority.
Same priority. What the priority? Then which thread should execute first?
Which thread should execute first? MT2. What the name of the MT2?
What is the name of MT2 threader? Thread one. So what is the first run should execute? Thread one run. Thread one run.
Okay, let me take one
less than 20. I ++
which thread executed first thread one and then what thread zero high priority
thread execution first started now shall I run one more time
which thread started thread one
more Red one. One more time. Red one. One
more time.
I want red zero.
Okay. Now what should come first?
Which thread started first and tell me priorities are working or not work? Run again.
Now thread zero.
Huh? Understand why I'm talking you know it is coming it's coming not coming. So
what the conclusion from this theoretically hyper thread first executed but
practically can we guarantee hyper thread started and first and completed first? No. Hybrid thread get more time
slice to execute. What I can say who is completed first, who started first we
cannot guarantee high priority thread meaning is what no not who started first
not who ended first we can say it get more time slice for execution that much
only we can say okay so if you carefully observe here this program most of the
time hyper thread first started and completed thread zero completed
thread zero completed High priority thread will give more time slice. Don't consider who started first.
We have to consider what who completed first because time slice will be given more. Now let me change the priority
here to seven here to 9. Who will complete now? MT2 first completed. Who
started first? Don't consider consider who completed first because high priority thread will given more time
slice. Hope you all understand now. Uh so finally we got clarity on thread
execution algorithms. How many algorithms JBM following to execute? Two
algorithms. What the two algorithms?
Thread scheduling and thread priority. What the meaning of thread scheduling? Thread scheduling means every thread
will be given some time to execute within the time slice. If the program execution not
completed, execution is fast. If if the thread
execution is completed, send to the terminated state.
What is the second algorithm? The second algorithm is thriority.
Every thread is having priority. The thread priority is in between the range 1 to 10. High priority thread will get a
chance to execute more time. More time slice will be assigned so that it will completed first. Low priority thread
less priority three is getting less time slice and uh it takes more time to execute. So these are the conclusion
points. How can we change the priority of the thread? By using set priority. How can I get the existing priority? By
using get priority. Any doubts? Are people comfortable now? Okay. Now let us
try to understand one more next program and tell me what is the name of the thread.
Come on here. What is the default name of the thread? Thread hyphen 0
1 thread hyphen 2. Am I right? So by default thread is having default name. I
don't like that name. I want new name. Can I assign new name
to the thread? Yes.
How many ways we can set name to the thread? There are two ways we can set the new
name to the thread. Number one, at the time of object creation. Number two,
after object creation. Statement. Have you heard this sentence?
I can store values inside the object at the time of object creation and after
object creation. How? By using constructor
and by using setter method at the time of object creation. If you want initialize object use constructor which
constructor parameterized constructor at the time of after object creation. If you want
initialize or modify the value then we have to use setter method. In thread class we have parameterized
constructor and we have set method. By default we have no param constructor.
Obviously we have no param constructor and also we have what string param constructor. Thread class contain no
param constructor also contain runnable parameter constructor string parameter
constructor. Runnable comma string parameter constructor. Thread group comma runnable thread group comma name.
There are totally four five constructors available. We least bothered about all the constructors. We already learned no
param constructor also we learn what runnable parameter constructor. If you are creating a class implementing
runnable interface to execute run method from runnable implementation class we should create thread object by passing
runnable implementation class object. For that we have to use second constructor. Now I want to understand
what third constructor. What the third constructor? String name. If you want to create thread object with your own user
definfined name then we have to use third constructor. If I create thread object by using no param constructor the
default name will be assigned. What the default name? Thread hyphen index number.
Thread hyphen index number. Index number start from zero. Uh thread index number
zero. First object what the index number zero. Second object one when the index
number is increased. If you create object by using no param constructor here what is the index number? Zero.
Here index number is increased one. Here index number is increased or not increased. Not increased because it is
parameterizer constructor here increased. Now tell me what the name of
this thread zero here. Here
here thread hyphen two thread - two can I
change the name of the thread by using set method after yes I call set method
child four and then I call what child are all people understand now next I am
creating two more threads by using no param constructor string param constructor
they are string param constructor uh now tell me can I create two threads with the same name. Okay, I'll come back to
this point later. First, let me up to now complete it. So, tell me, is it possible to change name of the thread?
Yes, how? By using set name method. How many ways we can set the name to the thread? Two ways. By using constructor
and by using setter method. Look at the program output flow. Thread zero uh
thread zero. And next one is what? Thread one. And next child three. Uh
here thread three. Thread two. Red two index number is increased only
when we call no param constructor. Uh now can I change the default name to my name? Yes.
By using set name method I can change then what the new name child for. So all people understand how to set the name
tell me. Many times in the project you will create the threads with a default name our own name. Our own name. If I
create with the default name how do I understand the thread is running which logic I want? I mean I'm creating one
thread to execute addition logic. Then we name the thread as what? Add thread. I want to execute a log. I want to
create a thread for executing subtraction logic. Then we name the thread as what? Subthread. I want to
create a thread for deposit operation. Then what we call the thread as depositor thread. So the names of the
thread we will we will provide the name to the thread based on the operation we are performing. So the name of the
thread meant for JVM or for the programmer programmer. Is it clear? Right. Now my next question is very
important. Can I create two threads with the same name? Any objection to the compiler and JVM?
Can I create two threads with the same name? Possible or not possible? Possible. We can create. If I create two
threads with the same name, who will confuse? JVM confused. Is it JVM running the
threads by using name of the threads? No. By using reference of the thread 10 10 20
or thread is having ID by thread ID or by thread reference threads will be
executed by JVM names are for whom purpose programmer say if I take two
threads with the same name no confusion to the JVM confusion to only what programmer now let's see now is this any
compile time error no is there any runtime error no two threads are created with what childify childify childify run
childify run Child run this run method is which childify confusion. So is it a
good idea creating two threads with the same name? No, I have to create threads with a different name. But what is the
point to understand here? I want to create threads with a different name. But uh uh how JVM will understand these
two threads by name of by ID. By ID like get name we also contain another method
called word get ID. Threats are executed by JBM by using what? Get ID. Get ID.
Now look at here. There is a method called get ID.
Uh observe I am calling I created first thread, second thread, third thread, fourth thread. Fourth threads I created.
I want to know the name of the thread. What method I have to call? th1 get name I want to know the ID of the thread for
that I have a predefined method call what get ID in the latest version in the
latest version 19 version in the version number 19 this
get ID method is duplicated and given alternative method called what thread ID
duplicated means marked as don't use marked as not use it has some problem
don't use this method that information is called what duplicated methods are
duplicated without giving alternative method with alternative method get ID
method is given with the alternative method what that alternative method thread id everyone understand so tell me
if you are using Java 17 version which method you can use thread ID if you are using Java 21 version more than Java 17
Java 19 is next one is what 21 Java 21 version which me I can use thread ID.
Okay, observe now what is the output from this program? Uh 20 21 22 23. So
what is the ID of this thread? 20. Next thread ID is what? 21. Next thread ID
22. Next thread ID 23. So JVM executes threads by their ID not by the
name. What the name of the first thread? Thread zero. Second thread thread one. Third thread sh three. And next thread
is also sh three. So any confusion to JVM? No. Now look at this output and try
to tell me how many threads are already available in the JVM before running our program
and creating threads. 19 threads are already available in the JVM. So JVM
implicitly has created totally 19 threads for its execution. Do you need
to worry about all the 19 threads? No. Next question. What is the first thread?
Zero thread. Try fellow. Now come on. What is the first thread?
Main thread. Without a main thread, you cannot do anything in the JVM. So tell me what is the thread ID one?
Main. What the main thread ID one. Okay. Tomorrow I'll prove that point. Okay. Uh
so finally hope you all got clarity on today discussion. What the points we discussed today? Number one,
how to execute different logic in custom threads. Number two, can I override
start method? Number three, how to create one custom thread from another custom thread. Number four, thread life
cycle states, old names and new names. How to get state name, thread state
name. Next also we discussed what is a enum like enum is a kind of class. Enum
is a kind of class who which is meant for creating set of named constants of
an object. If the value names are fixed then we are go for enum. Next what is
the enum name for the states? State is state created as outer class or inner
class? Inner class. Next, how to get the states of the thread by calling get
state method. Uh, now we understood write a program to get the state of the thread. Five states, new state, ready to
run state, running state, time waiting state, terminated state. Next, thread
life cycle execution algorithms. Two algorithm thread scheduling. What is the thread scheduling and on what basis
threads are executed? Second algorithm is thread priority. What is the priority? What is the priority range?
What the default priority? What the default priority of main thread? What the default priority of custom thread?
And next, how to change the priority? How to get the priority? And a sample program on priority. If it if the ready
to run state contain multiple threads, which thread is first executed? High priority thread. If both threads are
having same priority, which thread will be picked randomly. High priority thread is first started or first completed.
First completed. Cannot guarantee started. But we can guarantee completed. High priority thread will be given more
time slice for execution. Next, can we change the name of the thread? Yes. What the default name?
Thread - index. Every time when you create thread object by using no param constructor, thread index number is
increased. If I create thread object by using parameterized constructor, thread index is not increased. How can I change
the name of the thread? By using set priority method. How can I get the name of the thread? By using get priority
thread. Okay. Can I uh sorry set get name set name. Next uh is can I create
two threads with the same name? Yes. If I create two threads with the same name, any problem to the JVM? No. JVM execute
threads by ID. How can I get the thread ID? By calling get ID. In Java 19
version, get ID method is duplicated. Alternative method is given called what? Thread ID. So these are the total 20
points. We have 23 points we discussed in today class. Abishek today you come to the class. Understood?
Uh all people you have to practice all these programs by tomorrow you are
coming class to back so that tomorrow class will be easy. Tomorrow we are going to discuss more important methods.
Okay. We have entered into second stage completed third stage. What the third
stage? What the second stage? thread life cycle states and thread execution algorithms. Third stage of multi-thread
program is uh understanding thread class inbuilt methods. What the purpose of get
priority, set priority, get name, set name, get ID. These are the methods we are learning while developing
multi-thread program thread class methods knowledge also you must have. Tomorrow we are going to learn more
methods available in the thread class. So don't miss tomorrow class. Next every
Sunday I'm saying that this Sunday you will have class. Again this Sunday also I'm telling this Sunday you may have
class.
Okay. Now if I am unable to take I'll inform in the Google class. So you should not have any appointments la
until last minute. Don't have any appointments with your friends. Okay. So 99.99% I'm trying to take
because I have to complete full knowledge and syllabus batch also should complete as early as possible with the
complete knowledge. For that I need some extra time. Extra time is I have only on Sundays. Morning 7:00 a.m. free
7 a.m. batch completed 7 a.m. Priya.
Can I start class by 8?
Offline students, can I start the class by 8:00 a.m.
Not Sunday every day? Why you raise hand?
Possible not possible. Positive means don't raise hand. Not possible mean raise hand.
I think morning Oracle HTML batch completed right 8 a.m. Ina uh let's have
class from tomorrow how many more lecturers are left uh how
many more lectures you want to explain those many I will explain here shall I complete tomorrow b
you want me to teach I will teach if you don't want to teach I will not teach me it's ever wish you want me to teach or
you don't
Then why you are asking extra question?
You have another batch. How many days you'll have another batch, man?
HTML batch already completed. Everyone has finished
UI fullstack. Why you join UI full stack?
You are Java student. UI student
then why you come to Java? You choose either that path or this
path. Don't put your legs on two paths. You will die.
only you join for core Java.
Okay, let it be class at 9:00 a.m.
Thank you. Evening 5 p.m.
Advance over. Okay. Goodbye. So, tomorrow class as usual at
9:00 a.m. Thank you.
As usual 9:00 only, no change in the time.

