ript


My students why I terminated him one side I'm struggling to set up the mic
keep sending the message today class cancels or today class cancels
okay so that's why remove them from the class
is it Here maybe in doubt what happened why you remove. So why we want the type of
implement some right?
So last class we are trying to understand what
types of we are learning right. We are going to learn types of threats.
How many types of threats? We have two for the first one.
Types of threats. Demon thread and demon. So what is a demon thread?
A thread that is executed by provides services to other threads is called demon.
What is a non demon thread? A thread that executes.
Huh? Yes. And and executes the business logic is
called what non demon. Okay. Main thread is the non custom thread is sorry
collector is demon. When we create a custom thread by default that custom
thread is demon or non depending on the parent. If parent is
one then child is also D. The parent is not even child is also non. Okay. By
default we will create custom thread in main thread. So obviously custom thread
is also become what demon th as a demon thread. What should I do? I
must set demon or true we have to. Okay. Right. So yesterday we have discussed up
to here. Now my question is uh let me create one custom here.
There you emotion. You have
[Music]
Now I'm creating one more custoal.
Tomorrow class is at 8 a.m. Not only
no offset. Okay. Wake up 8 a.m. possible. No
problem. 8 a.m. to
my wish. Okay. 8 a.m. to my wish. Maybe 8:30 I
stop 9 I will stop maybe till evening 8:00 p.m. I meet.
Okay. So class will start at 8:00 a.m. to high to low. How much time I wish
today I will play. It's not your wish my wish. You have to sit silently in the class and listen whatever I'm saying
because you are not kids now. You are so much experienced playing job. Okay. You know complete terminology.
So now let's continue this. So tomorrow class is at 8 a.m. Remember it. Set.
Set alarm. Set alarm.
Open mobile. Set alarm at 7:45.
7:45 you wake up. Join the class. Sleeping. It will run back.
Students,
[Music] how much you sleep? 22 years. Since 22
years, you keep sleeping.
Uh, now we got a new thread. Now tell me here
TH2 thread is what type of thread? It is a demon or not demon.
It is a demon or not.
I want to make the thread as a demon. To make thread as a demon I have to call
set demon what I should pass true
students are facing same problem.
Is my voice resounding?
Okay one thing only people and start come together so that we don't have this problem
do what is output
okay we got it
now. Okay. Can you hear me now? Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello.
Huh?
Now here I'm writing thread t2 equal new thread system.out out first what you got
uh false because thread is started as what demon or non demon non demon now I
want to change thread from non demon to demon so we call what set demon of true
okay can I call set demon method anywhere
means can I call set demon before starting the thread
can I call set demon after starting the thread you are making thread as a demon
or non-demon after that you have to start the thread now so I want you to write one more thread t3 equal to new
thread okay now I am calling th3 dot start
start after starting thread I'm calling th set demon of true I am passing tell
me is it allowed or not
ready DH thread new thread after starting thread I am converting thread as a demon thread possible or not
possible thread started as what thread non demon after starting thread I am
asking sorry sorry change it to demon possible or not possible not possible it leads to exception
java.lang clang dot illegal thread state exception. Okay, illegal thread state exception. So
tell me when we are calling set demon method the thread is in which state?
Come on. After calling start method, thread is in which state? New state or ready to run state? Uh that mean thread
is not in uh thread is not in which state?
new state after start method call thread is not in new state. Uh so finally tell
me what is the important point when you call set demon method thread must be in
which state new state if it is not in the new state what is the problem we will get
exception why uh last class when I was explaining about start method I told you
is the start method start the threader or request the JVM to start the thread
how by giving the current object to the JVM then JVM stores that object inside one
collection. What the collection? Ready to run collection. Now listen background. There are two collections
will be there. One two. First collection is demon threads collection. Second
thread is nondemon threads collection. When you give the thread object to the
JVM, JVM internally what it is doing? It is checking for the thread is demon or
not. How it will check the thread is demon or not? By calling is demon method. TH3 dot is demon. Th is demon.
If demon is true, store it inside demon. If demon is false, store it inside non
demon thread. Now once thread is decided as type then after storing the
collection JVM start the threads and run the threads which threads both demon and
non demon. How long JVM will be running until all threads completed or until non
demon threads completed non demon threads. So say suppose TH1, TH2, TH3 or
non demon threads. TH4, TH5, TH6, TH7,
TH7 are demon threads. Now the JVM once TH1 thread execution completed, it will
remove from here saying that thread execution completed again TH2 completed. Remove here again. TH3 completed remove
here. Tell me now non demon threads collection is now empty. When non demon
threads collection is empty, what happened? Tell JVM requires to continue to run or not required. Not required.
Why there is no non demon thread? Demon threads are meant for running user business logic helping to non demon
threads. When there is no nondemon thread, do I require to execute demon threads? No.
Then JVM will shut up. Huh. Now tell me after starting the thread if you call
set demon of true the thread has to move from non demon thread collection to demon thread now is it possible? No.
Once you decided to start the thread as something, are you allowed to start the thread as other thing? No. Are very
simple here. You decided to go to
Di. Okay. You want from Hyderabad you want to go to Di. So you went to railway
station in the railway platform. First platform the train is there. Chennai to D with the border. Okay. Without
inquiring anybody you get into this train. Train started running running running running running running running after 1 hour. Chennai to Dante it is a
super fast express. No it is having very less number of stops will be there. Then
train is running almost 1 hour. 1 hour journey means how many distance how much distance it is traveled. Then TC come
and ask show me your ticket. You show the ticket D. Then ticket collector look at your face forest fellow before
getting into the train you have to check it. Is it Dina Chennai? It is going to Chennai. Chennai then stop the train. Is
it possible to stop the train? No. Then you said I will jump out from the train.
Jump then you will not go down. You'll go upward. Uh so finally tell me what is
the very important point. After starting the thread can you change the type of the thread? No. Before starting the
thread only you have to decide you want to go to Di or you want to go to Chennai
properly enquire and then get into the train. So Chennai di is Chennai is nothing but demon di is nothing but non
demon. Now you go n demon chennai I mean di you will come back with a completely
fried person you know huge heat waves are there babuita.
So plant trees when you are started your family at least surrounding to your
house have the good number of trees grow them make them to grow so that you will be happy your next generations will be
happy now all the people are doing what wherever good number of trees are there cut them and construct the house again
cut them construct the house at least after constructing the house are you leaving the sufficient space for the
trees to grow and next fully concrete water making water go inside the earth.
No. Okay. Wasely you are sending them into you know wasting on the roads. So
finally we are suffering from lack of water, lack of oxygen. So change your
minds when you're constructing the house. Make sure there is a sufficient place for growing the trees and make
sure there should be a rain harvesting in your house. One drop also should not
go out of your compound wall. Complete water should be go under the so that you
will not having the water problems. Seriously. Okay. Uh now fine. So now set
demon. Okay. Now TH3 dot set demon off. TH3 dot set demon off. What I Okay.
After start method allowed to call not allowed. Not allowed. You know yesterday there was a fighting. My neighbor is
coming and saying that these all plant trees disturbing me. Remove it.
in front of my house main door we used to grow the small small plants okay uh
so they are getting lot of disturbance because their children's are running that side this side okay uh we said
don't run because I said don't run then you remove these plants
if I remove plants will not get oxygen I will have the oxygen masks you don't worry such a nice people there
fine so thimon of true while running what happen. No, they are throwing these
plants down and they are skidding on the floor falling down and hitting to other
people are coming on the corridor. So I said may ask the childrens not to run on the corridor. Ask them to go slow but
they got angry. Okay. Such a nice people I have. Uh fine. So now tell me finally what is the important rule when you are
working with set demon. You should not call set demon method after start method. You must call only before start
method. Okay. Will you remember this point? Right. So finally how many types of threads are there? Two types. When we
should create thread as a demon thread when we want to provide services to other threads and not forcing JVM wait
for our logic to complete. If ask a question when should I create thread as a non demon or a demon when
you want to provide services to other threads and don't want to force the JVM
wait for our thread logic to complete then in that case we create thread as a demon thread I want execute business
logic and I want force the JVM to run until my logic completed then we should
create thread as a non now I'm creating a class here class my thread. What is
the number? 20 extends thread
run method uh inside run method I'm writing for loop for
int i = 1 i less than 20 I ++ system.out out. Now what do you
write? Uh say run colon plus I
here I'm writing system.out printer on double ports run
start and run enter. Uh here I'm creating custom thread my
thread
empty equal to new my thread
empty start tell me now this custom thread is starting as what thread
demon or non demon non demon non demon means even after
main completed also So double quotes main end even after main completed also
custom JVM waiting for custom thread to complete. Now look at the run end already main completed somewhere here
run start JVM waiting until run completed. Okay now I am calling here
empty dot set demon of true. If I plus
set demon of true uh then what happen? thread is started as a demon thread.
Demon means can you guarantee the thread execution? No, you cannot guarantee the thread
execution. Why? Because you wanted to start the thread as a demon means you wanted to uh terminate it even though
it's execution not completed. Look at that. What happened? Uh run start
completed or terminated or terminated. So when to start the thread as a demon when we want to provide services to
other thread when you want to execute your thread background provide services to other thread and don't want to force
the JVM to wait for our thread to complete then create it as a non demon
thread. Uh if you want to force the JVM to start as a demon non demon thread and wait for its execution to complete
create it as a non demon. Now tell me if I call set demon method two times. Set
demon of true set demon of true two times I call. Then tell me where is the problem? Uh any problem here? No. Any
problem here? Uh here exception is rise. Exception rised in a custom threader.
Exception rised in the main thread. Think and tell me. Exception rise in
main threader. Exception ris custom threader. Main thread. Custom thread array set
demon method you call in which method? Main method. Exception riser in which method? Main method. Exception riser in
which thread? Main thread. Where is a custom thread problem? You call set demon method inside which
thread main thread. It's logic loaded and executed in which thread main thread. If you want to load and execute
logic in custom thread, this line I have to write inside run method. If you call any method inside main method, it logic
executed in main thread. Uh now set demon method throwing exception. What
exception? Illegal argument ex sorry illegal thread state exception and it
makes main thread to terminate. When main thread is terminated what happened?
Tell me. When main thread is terminated what happened? Tell me. Uh when main thread terminated what
happened? Tell me when main thread is terminated custom
thread continue running or not continue not continue why because you started
thread as a demon or non demon non demon sorry demon or non demon demon when you
start thread as a demon now can you guarantee the custom thread run no it is also terminated okay now I am commenting
this I'm calling set demon after true tell me what
Huh? Allowed or not allowed? Well, not allowed. Here exception is raised. Who will terminate?
Main thread is terminated. When main thread is terminated, JVM also terminated.
No exception can terminate only thread not entire JVM. Exception will terminate
current method, calling method. At maximum it will terminate what?
current thread currently running thread it may be main thread or custom thread. Now if I call set demon method after
start method call main thread is terminated will JVM also shut down no
because JVM is checking are there any other non demon threads in the JVM tell
me we have already started a thread now this thread is a demon or non demon non demon non demon thread is available so
JVM shutdown wait for it to execute wait for it to execute because thread is a independent sequential flow of
execution. When something happened to other thread, is there any problem to it? No. Look at there. What happened?
Exception in thread main where you got main. Exception is in thread main. Any
problem to custom thread? No. Because it is a nondemon thread. So this question also we'll ask in the interview. I call
start method. Start method. Uh when I call start method, thread is ready to
start as a demon non demon thread. Can I change it to demon? No. Then what happened? Exception rised. Then
exception create the problem to which thread? Main thread. Then any problem to custom thread. No problem. Because
custom thread started as a non-demon thread. If custom thread started as a demon thread because there is no non
demon this thread is also terminate. So these are the points you have to tell to the employer. Look at the material. The
same notes points are there. Quick.
All points are there now. Types of threads nodes given points are there.
Same program is there. Calling start. Set demon method before start and after start.
Hello. Next points. Okay. So, we completed the most important methods
available in red class. What are the methods? Uh, tell me what is the 13th method?
public boolean is demon. Uh next to 14 public
void set of boolean on uh now try to answer now
I'm creating thread class object. When I create thread class object,
what are either thread or my thread object? Either thread object or my thread object. Say suppose this is my
thread object. According to inheritance chapter, you remember there are totally three classes are there. My thread and
then what? Thread and then what is this object? Inside
thread class there are totally there are variables target
name reality DMR
group ID red status. So totally these many
properties are available back. Okay, these many properties are
available back when you create thread class object
either directly or via subclass these many variables are created. Now tell me
target is a variable of what type? Runnable. Uh if you create if you
override run method y runnable interface then when you pass runnable object to
thread class constructor it is stored inside where target value and now it is
pointing to which object my runnable object.
It is pointing to my runnable object. Okay. Now inside my runnable object
obviously run method is available. Next name variable. Okay this is what
reference is tended and this reference is assumed 2020. When you create my thread object my runnable will not be
there. Right? So I want to remove this. Uh now this is 2020 object.
This is 2020 object. Uh now target variable contains what? Initially null.
Now the null is replaced with what value 10. Next name variable what the default
name zero. Priority is what? Five. Demon
default value false. Uh now you can change false to true. Group what the
group background thread group object is created with what name? Main. Thread
group object. Uh it contains what reference is uh say 101. Okay. Now here
I'm told is 10 level pointing to this. Uh next ID what this thread ID uh 20 I
guess right 20 picture number okay uh next thread
status whenever you create thread object it's a status zero
and then new status new state okay thread status or thread state thread
status uh thread status so zero will be the default value whenever you call start method zero replace with next
value so Whenever you create thread object background these many properties are created. Now all these methods are
meant forward either setting the value in these properties or getting the values available from these properties.
Everyone understand? Now what we have learned up to now we learn two stages of
multi-thread programming. Number one create and create start and run the
logic in the thread. Create start and run the logic in the thread. How to create the thread by using constructor.
How to start the thread? By using start method. How to run the logic v run
method. So constructor start method. Run method. Next I wanted to I wanted to get
and set get and set uh thread object properties. Get and set thread object
properties. Uh properties are how many properties? target name, priority, demon, group ID, thread status. These
all properties I want to get and set for that required number of methods we have learned. So thread class has provided a
required number of methods for creating, starting, running the thread also for
getting and setting the properties to the thread. Now we are going to the third stage. What the third stage?
Inside thread class we also contains a method for controlling for what purpose?
Controlling thread execution. For controlling thread execution. So set,
get and set methods are there. These methods are okay. Thread class contain the next methods. What the next method?
Controlling thread execution. Required methods also available. So what are those methods? Let me list what the
meaning of controlling thread execution. Tell me. Up to now in the Java stacks
area threads are executed under your controller under thread scheduleuler control uh thread scheduleuler assigning
the time slice. Assign the time slice uh that much time running. After time slice
completed pass and shifting to second thread and running pass shifting to third thread running pass and again
coming here running pass running pass again running pass. Thread scheduleuler
controlling the thread execution. How much time to run? When to pass, when to resume. No, no, no. I want to control
the thread execution. Whenever I want to pass, I want to pass. Whenever I want to resume, I want resume. For that purpose,
we require some more methods. What are the methods? 15th method
public. Uh these methods are meant for what? Controlling thread execution. Public static. Why static? Now tell me I
want to pass currently running thread execution. What the meaning of currently running thread execution? My method
logic is already loaded inside one thread. This currently running thread logic I want to pass. That means I
should create thread object. I should not create thread object should not create currently running thread means
object is I don't create implicitly available. So if you want to execute method without creating object the
method should be what? Static. Public static while the method name is yield.
Method name is yield. Next method is public static while sleep by giving long
milliseconds not seconds not minutes not hours it is
what? Milliseconds. And next we have one more overloaded sleep method is available. public static sleep long
milliseconds comma into nanoconds exact time I want to specify including
nanconds okay then you have to use what second method generally we will use first method tell me whenever someone is
sleeping you go and disturb them he decided to sleep morning afternoon after
tomorrow chicken biryani completed now for digesting purpose you need to take a rest so you decided 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. to
sleep that much time you set but your friend come and disturb you in the middle by 2:30 when you are enter into
deep sleeping mode now he come and disturb you what is your position are you happy smiling crying crying or
shouting shouting sleep method also will shout
okay uh interrupted exception sleep we ask the sleep method pass our thread
execution for 500 milliseconds before 500 millconds completed someone
has disturbed it then it will throw interrupted exception
okay and next 18th method public
v interrupt if you want to interrupt the sleep state I need one method now that
method is what interrupt we can interrupt the sleep state of the thread by using the method interrupt uh next
Now I want again pass the thread execution. For that I have non-static method join. Another non-static method
we have join off long millisecond. Another join method is there again long
milliseconds comma into nanconds. Sleep method is a static method. Join
method is a non-static method. Sleep method has the two overloaded forms. Join method has a three overloaded
forms. Next public one more method is there while okay it's not a method it is
a synchronized keyword
synchronized keyword by using synchronized keyword we can create method
synchronized block generally we call block but people are calling it as a statement
synchronized statement I don't know why they are calling but I want to call it a synchronized block next after that we
have more methods public wide weight
of throw sorry no par and next public wide weight long milliseconds uh public
wide weight long milliseconds comma in nanoconds next whenever you have weight
method supporting we have notify
and notify all. Okay, notify, notify all. Uh sleep
method pass the thread execution. If any other thread interrupt its sleep state,
it will throw interrupted exception. Similarly, join method is also pass the thread execution by using interrupt
method. We can interrupt the join state. That time also it will throw interrupted exception. Interrupted exception. Wait
method also pass the thread execution. By using interrupt method we can interrupt the time again this method
will throw interrupted exception. Okay. So sleep method, join method, wait
method passes the thread execution while they pass the thread execution from
other threads. If you call interrupt and interrupt the pass state, all the three methods will throw interrupted
exception. So these methods are meant for from yield to weight method. These
methods are meant for pausing the thread execution whenever we want manually.
Okay. By default JVM throw exception or not? Whenever some mistake we did operator mistake or I know value mistake
or logic mistake. JVM throw exception. Can we also throw the exception? Yes. By
using which keyword? Throw keyword. Similarly can I
By default, JBM pass the thread execution. Can I also pass the thread execution? Yes, by using these methods.
Now, let's start understanding one by one.
A small configuration mistake killed one time
the mic connection they put.
Okay, here mic connection there. Huh? Mic connection and headphone headphone
connection mic they I mean they're misplaced 1 hour time is true.
So
today advance our class is there a no class
sorry really can you attend today class 5:00 5 to 7
everyone
One day skip feel that you are suffering from emotions. Okay. When you suffering from
emotions where you are no you have other plan then have that plan.
What is the problem? You never miss the class. Ra
in this three and a half months. You never miss the class.
Postpone the plans. Uh one day you miss it. Now today also miss.
Okay. Today also miss buddy. No problem.
on 27 MLC election. MLC election.
Uh sorry. Okay. Now uh today also I missed the class. No problem. Right.
Today let us have class evening 5 p.m. If you have 5 p.m. online only
no offline.
No offline only online. Okay. Now 5 to7
I will share link. Don't worry in the Google classroom I will share link today
527 join class. Clear? So because we already lost the time I
according the schedule I have to complete these methods up to join me.
What itch? Huh?
When you want online, you can join online asking admin. Hey link, send me
link. Huh? If is not sending the link, you send message. S admin not sending
link, sir. When I ask to join online, you have lot of problems. No sir, offline sir. No problem. today's attend
today evening 5 to 7 and tomorrow 8:00 a.m. onwards okay now 8:00 a.m. onwards
till what time I want to take I will take the class clear my point thank you
that's all for today class it's all time up
okay uh so today evening 5:00 you will start understanding all these topics
join class online I'll share the classroom link in your I mean I'll share
the Google I mean uh zoom link in Google classroom from there you collect it
Clear. Thank you.

