ript


Right. So now let us try to understand the next
two topics. Deadlock number two interthread communication small topics
topics. If you understand synchronization um these two topics are very easy. So what are the two topics? Deadlock and
inter thread communication. Okay. First let us complete deadlock.
I don't explain. I will directly write code. You only
understand okay
let's try this way I don't explain just I will write code
and we'll see that based on the code I'm writing we should keep analyze uh how
many threads will be there in the JVM I mean in our project minimum two threads right when there are no two
threads then there is No point of
concurrent flow multi-threading is not deadlock is a situation first I'm
telling the definition deadlock is a situation when two threads are depending
on each other first thread is waiting for second thread to complete second
thread is waiting for first thread to complete first thread waiting for second
thread to complete second thread waiting for first thread to compete then this situation is called what? Deadlock
situation. Both are interdependent, mutually dependent. Now tell me
if you observe on roads know people might know old
movie was there aluhand.
So they brahman is there. Okay. Gam old movie. Uh generally on highway roads
some Okay. This is a oneway road. Gam. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Not G.
Sorry. G. One vehicle is coming from this direction. Another vehicle is
coming on the same road. Same direction. Okay. Then this driver and this driver
both are went for ego feeling. You go back. You go back. Then finally who will go back?
No one will go back. And finally what happened? Traffic j. Then some third
person is coming here beating either this driver or that that driver. And then now one person will go back. Right?
Uh guys solved the problem. Right?
So this situation is called deadlock. Now I'm writing the code. You try to
think tell me when deadlock will come if you develop
synchronization wrongly. Tell me in the synchronization only know one thread waiting for other thread to release the
lock to execute. Right?
No.
Sunil are you 6 p.m. student
and why you are getting 6 p.m. code in your name? Are you old student?
Unmute.
unmute.
Hello. Yeah. Yeah. Hi. Hi. Good.
Why the code name is coming? 6pm 0001. Did you add it? 6 p.m.00001. No, sir. 9 a.m. B only.
Are you 9:00 a.m. new batch student or old batch 9:00 a.m. come to the 6 p.m. come to the 9:00 a.m. Did you take admission already old batches?
Uh yes old batch I joined 6 p.m. like previously on September you have started
one batch no se August or September that time you didn't complete your
course you rejoin
do you understand my question did you rejoin this 9:00 a.m.
Rejoin means like when you started from February 5th from other that type of
my question is did you pay fees for this course again and joined or
how you run this 9 a.m. batch when you are 6 p.m. B that's what my question again I have paid
for 9 a.m. you paid again yes okay why did you miss 6 p.m. when you had already done payment that time.
No, that time I have not uh completed some uh situation was there bad. Are you working employee?
Uh yes sir. Okay.
Why you always missing the information in the Google classroom? Are you not following? Always you asking question in the
telegram saying that this Sunday class there are this Saturday class there. Why you are missing information? Are you not
regular? Yeah, regular I'm joining but Google classroom
only that latest information not showing for me.
Information not showing for you. Uh yes sir. Well when information showing to everyone did you attend Saturday class?
Saturday class? Yes sir. Attended? Yeah.
Then why you don't have information on Saturday? I already told in the class only I announced eight classes at 8:00 a.m.
Uh maybe I missed uh s are you just recording classes and going? No, no, like not recording like
are you registered in Google classroom? Registered?
Uh don't know sir. Let me check like don't
Okay. So I'm doing what I'm doing just I'm
waiting for you to actually to talk in the class. I'm removing you from the telegram group because the telegram
group is old for old students. So every Sunday every Saturday Sunday you are
sending messages saying that you know class started not started a so it is a
disturbance for the old students. So I remove you from the Google classroom. Okay. Oh okay sir. Why? That's a irritating
sentence. That is that is mannerless. That is
such a worst behavior. People are having funny character. Who is funny character?
You idiot are number one funny character.
Stuff mindless. Don't you know how to respect others?
That's what I'm telling from the day beginning in the course. Respect others. Help others.
Hey Singh, is it right?
Because of you, such a idiots are there in the society supporting the worst people. That's why they are showing
their true colors. When he's saying something that you should support him or you should
encourage him sir
and you are single, no sing is doing like that.
Sings are having lot of respect in the society. Did you know that you born in that community and you are
doing this worst way
such a mannerless idiots you people are even every day I'm reminding also you
are behaving like this man such a worst to people right
you guys are don't know the value of the food that's why you people are like this if your father mother stop giving the
money sufficient money stop giving the food sufficient food then you will automatically your body will bend and
automatically get the respect to others sufficient food providing to you that's why you don't know the value of others
less fellows
Yeah, you understood.
Yeah, Sunil if you find any difficulty send me direct message to me. The group
is not for inquiring class started or class not stopped. Okay. The group is for asking the questions,
doubts, doubts, discussion group. It is it's not for asking the class. Class started, not started, when started, when
completed. If you have any personal questions, you can send message to me directly. Okay? You have my number.
Sunil this is the Google classroom I have shared already yesterday night
today night Saturday told reminder message also I sent tomorrow class is at 8:00 a.m. okay
session will be started at 8:00 a.m. Today's class multi- threading join
class. Okay. So be active man.
Okay. You joined now and asked when the class started. I already started concept explaining.
If you know when the class is started, what will you do with that?
already I'm in discussion in the middle and you send a message in the chat window on disturbing everyone asking
when class started by knowing when class started what can you do
can you bring the earth back to the time
do you have any time machine I'm talking to why are responding
people you people learn every day I'm telling the same learn how to communicate with others how to respond
when to respond when to ask that's called communication skills learn
Everyone I'm not talking only with the sunil I'm talking to everyone because you have the fingers hands keyboard you
cannot type whatever you like as is feel you are in the offline class when
you are in offline class in the classroom how you behave that way you have to behave I have started a concept
explaining in the middle if you send the message then is it not disturbance to the
Huh? Everyone tell me. So what is deadlock? Deadlock is a situation where
two threads are interdependent. One thread execution is passed waiting
for other thread to complete. Second thread execution is also passed
waiting for thread first thread to complete. then both never completed and finally we will get deadlock.
Okay. Now I'm trying to create here two programs I'm developing on deadlock.
Carefully understand I'm creating class called a
okay uh a extends from thread.
Okay. And override run method.
Next I'm creating class called B extends from thread
override run method
these concepts are very important for improving your programming knowledge also how I am connecting the classes in
your project also you have to connect the classes don't focus on topic important or not important focus on the
code I'm writing this code will this code knowledge will help to make you understand The project scenarios in
project you got to write this kind of code only. Okay.
Now I have created two classes, two thread classes.
Tell me how can we share this class object to this class and how to share
this class object to this class. Remember in garbage collection we have learned creating island of isolations
means one object is holding another object another object holding this object. If you want to hold B object in
A I must create B class reference in A class
and should define the constructor. No should not define constructor. Okay.
Uh next I should define here setter method.
Why constructor we cannot create
Next here I'm taking private a a and we
should define set and get methods.
Now I'm creating here a class object a1 equal to new a. If I define constructor
for init for setting B object to A. First of all I have to create B object.
To create B object what required? A object required. Understand my point. To
initialize this B variable. If I define a class parameterized constructor. How
many ways we can initialize? Two ways. Via constructor and via set method. If I initialize via constructor, what is the
problem? I need to pass B object. To pass B object what required A uh to pass B
object first we should create B object. To create B object again what required A object. So you cannot use constructors
because it's a dependent. Hence we have to use only set methods. Create a class object with no param constructor. Create
B-class object with no param constructor. Uh then then pass
B1 A1 dot set B of B A1 uh B1 dot set B
of B set A of B understand so tell me A of J now holding which object B object
is holding which object A both are mutually accessing each other now
A members I can access in B. B members I can access in A. Next I'm starting the
threads. Now these are what thread objects. A1 dot start and B1 dot start.
A1 dot start and B1 start.
Uh tell me any confusion in this three classes
everyone no confusion now here I'm writing system outprint
red dot current red dot get name double quote
Start. Okay. Uh thread started. Are you able to visualize the diagram?
A1 thread started. Run method loaded. Running. Now
system out.
system.out out print I'm writing a message here double thoughts.
[Music]
I'm calling writing a message name plus
calling join on join on B1 thread 2.
Okay. uh let me write here in place of this
let me remove this because confusion will come directly I'm writing a thread started
directly I'm writing here a thread
is calling join on join method on B thread now can I call like this
B dot join can I call B dot join
B dot join join method we have to handle exception then after that I'm calling
here a thread resume
a thread end okay what I did I want to pass a thread
until b thread completed any problem. First A thread started then join call A
thread is passed then after B thread execution completed what happened
after B completed A is resumed and then A thread is complete
any deadlock is there come any deadlock is there systemout
print double quotes B thread start
and B thread end. Any deadlock is there? No. Uh let me run this code. Save it.
Control F11. A thread start. A thread is calling join method. Then A thread is paused.
A thread is paused. A thread start B thread start. B thread end. Then after B
thread completed, B thread resume B thread end. Clear all people. Now here
what am I doing? I have access to the A object. Now I have B thread has the
access to A thread on A thread. Now it is calling join method.
Possible or not possible? Possible. Then now tell me will you get deadlock or
not?
Why? B thread waiting for A thread to complete. A thread waiting for B thread
to complete. Both are now waiting for each other. Never completed.
So tell me if we call join method on two threads mutually then we'll get what
situation that are you understand the diagram
we have one thread and second previously what I did in the main thread on th1
thread I call th1 dojo join then what happen until this thread execution
completed main thread is waiting after main after TH1 completed control come back to main main completed that's what
we discussed yesterday and now today what is the task I'm
taking I have taken TH1 thread and I'm taking what TH2 thread two custom
threads I have used then in a TH1 I call TH2 join in a TH2 thread I call TH1 join
Uh what happened now? It is waiting for TH2 complete. It is waiting for TH1 to
complete. Never complete. Both are waiting to enter. Then how to access TH2 and TH1? Further I have to pass this
object and store it in TH1. Am I right? How to access TH1 and TH2? Uh I have to
pass TH2 reference and store it object here. Then this TH do this TH2. So for
that sharing purpose I have developed constructor code and setter method. Okay. So understand this code it leads
to deadlock. If you ask a question when will you get deadlock? All students faculties textbooks will learn deadlock
with synchronized keyword. We are also learning with join. Join me also make
threads deadlock. Enter it into deadlock. Then is it possible to bring these
threads out from the deadlock? Is there any chance you have? Yes. How? In main
thread call interrupt method or coin joins seconds. Excellent. 70.
Good. So now you can call here join off time. Wait for only how much time to
complete the given time. Okay. Given time only I want. So now in place of
join of this one. Uh I am writing what? I'm writing what? A dot join of 5,000
milliseconds within 1,000 milliseconds if not completed now B thread will
resume B thread waiting for A thread only for 5,000 milliseconds control F1 count 1 2 3 4 5 B thread completed A
thread also complete if
the threads are in deadlock situation for a period of time then we call it as
starvation. What is a deadlock? Deadlock means what? It not possible to bring the thread out
of the strip. Lifetime it will be there in the deadlock situation. Then we call it as deadlock. What the meaning of
starvation? Starvation. Starvation means the threads will be in the deadlock
mutually exclusively available in the deadlock only for the given period of time. Then there is a chance the threats
are coming out of the deadlock. Then we call that situation as what? Starish. Is it clear to everyone?
And now let us try to understand second scenario of deadlock.
Second scenario of deadlock. And now here I have one thread.
And here another thread two threads are now the second situation deadlock. We are understanding synchronized
keyword. If I use a synchronize if you call synchronized methods in a wrong direction then we'll get deadlock. Okay.
Here first thread is using its own object. Second thread is using its own
object. Okay. First thread is calling say this is a object and I'm taking this
as what? B object. Then A dot it's called A do M1 bypassing B object. Is it
possible or not? Yes. Okay. Call A do M1 bypassing B object. Here M1 method is
not a normal method. M1 method is a synchronized method. If method is synchronized, which object is locked,
everyone should respond.
Which object is locked now? MR method taking two objects A and B. Which object is locked? A object or B object?
Synchronized method locks. Which object? Current object or argument object?
only current object. Synchronized method will lock only current object. So it
will lock only which object? A object. Uh tell me when a object is locked. What
I cannot do on that A object? I cannot use that object for calling synchronized
method. But can I use this object for calling non-synchronized method? Yes.
Can I pass this object as a argument to a method? Yes. Can I return this object
from this method? Yes. Only what I cannot do, I cannot use this object to
call synchronized method. That's it. Clear? Now once the control entered into M1
method inside M1 method, this a object is lock logic executing. Then somewhere
I have passed this M1 method execution. when I pass the ammon method execution
control is coming to which thread B thread.
Okay. Now in B thread now I am writing B dot
B dot M2 of A. Is it possible? Can I pass A
object as argument to a method? Yes, no problem. B do M2 of A. Then tell me here
M2 method is also synchronized method. If M2 method is synchronized method, which object has to lock? Current
object. Current object is B. Is B available to lock? Yes. Then B object is
locked. Then control entered into M2 method. M2 method logic is going on
going on going on. Somewhere I have passed M2 method logic. When I passed M2
method logic, control is coming back to M1 method. After passed state I have
written B dot B dot M3.
Uh tell me what happen if you call B. M3.
Now JVM can proceed with B3 method execution or not.
I want everyone to answer.
You have to tell
Dias you have to tell what is your thought is M3 method synchronized method
or normal method. If it is synchronized method what happen? If it is not a synchronized method what happen? You
decid satish. Excellent. It is depending on M3
method type. If M3 method is synchronized, M3 method should lock the
B object for which thread? TH1 thread. Can TH1 thread can lock the B object?
No. Because already B object is locked by whom? TH2 thread. Understand?
Uh suppose M3 is also synchronized then what happened? TH1 thread execution is
passed here. Waiting for TH2 thread completing
M2 method. Then control come to M2 method. Okay. Now M2 method completed.
Then what happen? B object is unlocked. M3 completed. Deadlock not there.
Deadlock data not there. Not there.
Why? M3 method cannot continue execution because B object is locked by another
thread. So PH1 thread execution is passed. JVM shifting to TH2 thread. TH2
thread M2 method rest of the statements executed completed going out. When control come out of the M2 method B
object is unlocked. B object is unlocked. Then JVM come to the TH1 thread. TH1 thread proceed with M3
method by locking this object again here. Understood the flow.
Now what I am doing M3 method execution uh TH1 thread execution is passed
because of M3 method call. control come here and here I am writing a dot M4
method. Uh now tell what happened can M4 access
the B object execute its logic not depending on M4 method type.
Yes or no depending up
thread call the M4 method. M4 method accessing B object. If M4 method is a
non-synchronized method, can it access the A object and completed execution?
Yes. If M4 method is a synchronized method, can it continue for accessing A
object? No. Then what happen? Uh TH2 thread execution is passed. Waiting for
TH1 to complete execution. TH2A thread execution is passed here. waiting for
TH2 thread execution to complete. Then finally thread entered into where both
are entered in waiting for each other. JVM entered into deadlock. Understand a deadlock situation with a synchronizer
keyword.
So synchroniz deadlock is a situation where two threads are internally
depending on each other and not completing at all. then we'll get deadlock situation. Join method creates
deadlock situation. Synchronized keyword also creates deadlock situation. Enter ask a question which keyword creates a
deadlock synchronized. How I have two two threads are there? Two threads are
accessing synchronized method mutually on two different objects which are already locked.
two threads accessing two synchronized methods mutually
on the objects which are already locked then we will get synchroniz then we'll
get deadlock situation shall we write the code for this will you help me to write code how many classes I have to
create
here totally how many classes I have to create look at the diagram and tell me
how many classes not class number satyidas to develop this deadlock. How many
classes you have to create?
Five classes you have to create object one class with M1 M4 methods
object B class with M2 and M3 methods.
Then thread one class, thread two class and main method class. Totally five
classes. Okay.
Now tell me how many classes we have to create. two classes
le uh 42
deadlock sync uh first I'm writing class already class
A class B we created now can I take it as first class
and then I'm creating class
second class then I'm creating class FC thread first
class thread extens thread
class SSC thread
extends thread tell me in projects we'll create all these classes in single Java file separate Java file
every class will be available in separate Java file for your understanding purpose visible visibility
u visualization purpose I'm creating all in single
Java file and for easy sharing purpose okay
Google classroom allows me to share only 20 files at a time that's why I'm creating multiple classes single Java
file don't create in interview don't create all in single Java file separate Java file simply uh first class contain
v1 method which will take second class as a argument
see Okay. And here I'm writing
string name equal to uh thread dot
current thread dot get name
string name and next I'm writing a message for tracking purpose for understanding
message purpose double source name plus
called FC dot M1
or you can say uh in FC M1
start next down I'm writing
end Okay. Uh same messages I'm writing in
second thread class. If you have concept writing code is easy.
Okay. Uh here what name? SC c dot sc dot
m_sub_2 m2 simple. If you have concept writing code
is easy. What code is nothing but implementing the diagram flow of execution. So always people are having
code code is after all don't think code think for concept once you code once you
concept and concept design there in your mind uh writing code is easy then now
here I'm calling I want to pass this first thread so that control will go to
second thread right how to pass the first thread by calling sleep method you want dependent pass I independent
independent just I want to pass the thread so for thousand millconds I'm passing
surround with the try catch because you want to call it in a run method. Uh then whenever execution is passed what
happened? Uh name FC. M1 passed.
Okay. Uh after sleep method completed what happen?
Uh after resumeuming now I am calling SSC dot
M3 method I'm call okay sc method I call printing message
name is calling
is calling sec M3 just for knowing purpose okay and then now same code I am
repeating in same code I am repeating in M2 method
here. Name plus SC dot
M sorry uh SC dot M2 first then
SC M1 M2 M2 regime the name is calling
FC dot FC. M4. I'm calling here FC. M4.
Now here just I want to write one more message for you. Name is after
after calling FC. M4. Here also I'm writing message
name is after calling just tracking the messages that's all fc
dot m3 now I need m4 method here I'm creating m4 method while m4 open bracket
system outprint what is the double quotes m4
is executed Uh next same method I'm writing
what is this M3 method M3
is executed. Okay done. So code is ready. Now the threads now what I should
write run method. Uh now tell me both threads has to access same first class
second class object or different class different objects same instances it has to access are different instances
same instances it has to access then only we'll get synchronization now
sakshi if different objects then
we don't get synchronization
Now what the method we call here fc dot m1 of ssc
done now I'm writing inside the Second class also same code. Now first we will
take second object then first object S thread
second class SC equal to first class SC.
Okay. and overriding run method. What write here? Second object dot M2 of
first object. Right? Two threads are ready. Then main method. Here in main method we create
first class FC equal to new first class. Am I writing any my super code? No, I
have a requirement according requirement. I'm designing my code. Daily in the in the company also you do
lot the same thing. You don't write anything super code. First you should understand the design. What client is
asking according to the client code. The diagram design is important should be there. Then you have to start design the
code. Uh now here what you write? Uh new first class thread
by passing first object second object dot start. and next new
second thread uh by passing second object first object start that's all huh
tell me now did you develop synchronization in this code no there is no synchronization then any uh
deadlock situation will come object locking is there no deadlock situation will come no successfully program
executed and coming back somewhere error is
FC M4Y
M4 is there now
parameter parameter name
look threats are executing sequentially concurrently concurrent thread zero.
Okay, I want to give the names to the threads. One second.
FC dot set name of double quotes FC
then FC dot start
second class SC= I'm
Look at that. First class thread, second class thread both are executing concurrently and there is no deadlock.
Everything going smoothly. Now what I started implementing synchronization I
declare only one method are synchronized any problem or no problem deadlock will
come or will not come will not come because only one object is locked other object is not locked so other thread can
use that object and completed no deadlock situation
okay both threads are completed look at here program execution is done uh next
now I'm trying to declare I'm trying declare M2 method has also synchronized
okay deadlock situation will come or will not come will not come okay because other
other M3 M4 methods are not synchronized so not locked objects can be used for executing non-synchronized methods look
at there both are completed and execution completed now M4 method I'm
declaring as synchronized uh not any deadlock situation No because other
method is non-synchronized. So non-synchronized method can be executed with locked object end
and then JVM completed. Now I'm declaring M3 method also synchronized
then problem starts all persons required locks then only
executed. First class thread is calling M3. Second
class thread calling M4 and program execution is passed because both are internal waiting for lock.
Okay. So how to solve this deadlock situation?
Can I use interrupt method to interrupt the state? Not possible. Interrupt method will only interrupt sleep join
weight states but not synchronizer state. You must use synchronizer keyword
carefully. Okay. If you are using synchronizer method wrongly, it will comes to
deadlock situation. So don't use synchronizer keyword on mutually sharing
objects. Okay. Carefully you have to use
synchronized block also will have deadlock mean lock condition will be there.
Right. So with this we done with our synchronization and also deadlock
situation. All people comfortable
join method wise synchronization
synchronizer wise deadlock situation. Let's see. We need to accept only 2 3 4
5 6 7 and access
practice here. Okay, you have to type this code by your own and practice.
Don't copy. I'm sharing the programs. Then copy paste this program in your uh
system will not make you programmed. If you type these programs by your own
without looking into notes, then you'll become programmed. See, be like think
like a faculty. Can faculty being a faculty am I copying from any book in
front of me keeping a book and then typing? No. Where is my concept in my mind? What
I want synchronization. What is synchronization? This is synchronization. And then so how to
write the code? This is where I have write the code. So all points are there in my mind. So I'm able to write and
when you ask any doubt also I'm able to explain because concept there in my mind. So you should also have concept in
your mind. If you open the notes
then close the system. If you close the system then open the notes. Either nodes or system should be open not both at a
time. That is the way you have to practice from the hello world program onwards. I
am telling the same point remember. Okay. So with this we completed
synchronization deadlock and their related story. Okay. One last point I
want to ask if you want uh fast execution multi- threading you
have to develop. If you develop multi-threading there is a chance that there is a chance that the two threads
are sharing the object concurrently executed data modified
inconsistent way and will get wrong results. Then we have three solutions to
this problem. The three solutions. Number one, use synchronized method.
Number two, use a synchronized block. Synchronized method lock the object for
the entire method execution to complete. Synchronized block then the program
execution is slow. synchronized block lock the object and allow the
concurrent. Lock the object again allow concurrent. Lock the object again allow concurrent. So execution is fast
compared to synchronized method. Okay. Now
now third idea please listen. The third idea is avoid synchronization.
When you need synchronization if both threads are sharing the same object synchronization is required right
try to avoid synchronization as much as possible means don't use object
where don't create object at class level create object inside a method for example I have a method called M1 inside
M1 if you create a object and then tell me this object is available only local
to this M1 method And now same method v1 again loaded in
the second thread. Same new keyword again executed. That means again object is created local to this ml method.
Uh tell me this method executing for this object. This method executing for this object. Now tell me is there any
data corruption data synchronization required or not required? Not required. So use local variables.
Use local variables. Try to avoid class level variables. Try
to create local variables. Sir, no sir. It is impossible. I have to have the class level variables. Then only go for
class level variables. Try to avoid class level variables. Where you can avoid class level variables? Try to
avoid so that we not require to implement synchronization. First execution we will get. Okay.
In advanced Java in a serlet chapter your advanced faculty should explain
this synchronization all the topic there. Okay. Service method serlet class
level creating objects is a bad programming inside service method you
have to create objects. Okay. Slets your advanced faculty will explain. If not explain ask me I'll explain later.
So previous batches I used to explain advanc topics also but uh nowadays I'm
not covering advanced topics in four Java because two problems. Problem number one course duration is increasing
students are shouting at me. Problem number two all students are asking me to
start advanced job.
Okay. So that is the second problem. That's
why I'm not touching advance our topics not to create problem to advance our faculties.
Generally when you catch one one flow it's a difficult for catching other
flow. Every faculty has a different flow of explanation. Uh so it is a difficult for you to catch
that other people flow. Yeah. I will teach advance in one way other people teach in another way. So it a little
difficult. So that's why I don't want to show my advanc to you so that you don't face problem and you're listening advanc
classes by other faculties. Okay fine. So in advance if your faculty
not explain serlet synchronization concept then ask me I will take one
workshop and I will cover selenium imposite
that is out of discussion. Selenium is complete different course not part of job
and I hate selenium because it's testing I don't want to come as a tester
and now let's go to the last topic of multi- threading
ITC ITC means inter thread communication
again Inter thread communication is also second part of synchronization. Okay. First you understand the concept
then we will go for code rate. Everyone ready? Without code without concept you
cannot write code. Remember first you know concept then design then code then test. That's how you have to tell me Ali
people know roadside you have uh shops will be there. Tiffen shops.
Roadside Tiffen shops. Have you ever taken food from roadside tiffen shops?
Getting feeling this the bundle?
Okay. Uh taste will be there. That's true.
Uh now these are the customers are coming. Okay. Now early morning uh this
is started and this is the stove uh where
oil and everything bandy whatever we call it as and this is a plate where all
these items will be arranged and here we have puri master puris are prepared
uh puri master making puris and transfer to that puris here first puri Second
puri, third puri, fourth puri, fifth puri. Tell me will he keep on preparing
puris? If you keep on preparing puris, what is
the problem?
Later we'll see first you concentrate on puris. So
uh it's on demand. If you keep on preparing puris, if no customer is
coming to buy the puris, the puris become waste. He has to throw into dust bin loss.
So when customer come and order then two puris are gone. Uh next
customer come and order next two puris then the plate is empty. Now he will
make again second round of puris. Again next customers come uh that means what?
This is a object. Okay. This plate is what? Object.
I have two threads. Puri master is a thread one. Customer is thread two. Two
threads are there. What thread one is doing? Thread one is modifying the
object by storing data. Modifying.
modifying the object or producing data.
Okay. Then what this customer is doing? Customer is reading
reading or consuming reading or consuming the data. Clear my
point? And now this da this bundy is what now? Factory
the area where production and consuming is happen.
Okay buddy. All people connected to the example. Uh how many objects are there? One
object. How many threads are there? Two threads. One thread is what operation
doing modify. Second thread what operation doing? Reading. Previously
also we have one object and two threads. But earlier what happened? One object is
both objects are modifying the object data. Previously both objects are modifying object data. Then we must
allow any one of the thread to modify either first thread or second thread not both the threads. But now what is the
scenario? Scenario is first thread modifying second thread is reading.
Second scenario. Now think and tell me while puri is manufacturing in this
bundi. Bandhi what we call in English Hindi this particular dha where oil is there
puri is cooking dan is this one here this bundi is dan
this particular bhi what do you call in English telu we call it as bhandi kar in
Hindi we call karai okay now when puri is preparing in this
karai can this customer come and take and
No, that means when the puri is manufacturing here, should you allow the
customer to access this object? When data is storing in the object in the
middle, will you allow other thread will read that object data? Then what should I do? I should execute these two threads
concurrently or sequentially.
Sequentially, I should allow to execute. How can I make the two threads execute sequentially?
By locking. Correct. By locking. How to lock the object? To lock the object, I
have to use synchronized keyword. Which method I have to declare as synchronized? Produce method I have to
declare as synchronized. Tell me only produce method declare as synchronize sufficient or should I declare consume
also synchronized? Uh I should declare consumer also
synchronized. Why? While consuming the puri is this producer should add more
puris into his plate. No both the people are using the same
plate. Now while he is eating he should not add more food. It is like you know
uh in our villages in our villages we called you know relatives are calling
for food. Now uh your lus are sit on this plate on
this uh ch and now all the rau will provided here what we call in Hindi
the plates and people are trying to eat here right and other people are coming
here to serve. Uh what this person is doing first
everyone come on this is the best example what all this what he's doing he is serving serving serving serving
serving serving serving and coming on waiting here after serving these people are started eating
after eating completed then next round again is coming and serving the next
items and going and again these people are eating after eating completed Hard
round food is taking and serving and going. Are you people connected?
Now tell me while this person eating in this place
next round sambar should throw. No. If while eating if you pour the
sambar then he will get angry and slap him. No.
Uh so tell me while he's eating what he will do he will put his hand in front of
the plate means he lock this plate now how can we lock the locking concept is
synchronized while consuming he should not add food so what I have to do here
declare this method also as what synchronized
So both produce and synchronize. While producing he should not eat. While eating he
should not produce. For that we have to apply synchronized. Is it clear?
Okay. Done. Now I have a question. Second point all people think. Now he
produced the item. Okay. Then come for second round also is
going on producing. Allowed or not allowed. Third round again producing. Allowed or
not allowed?
Think and tell me. Allow not allowed.
When he has to produce immediately before eating or after eating her.
Understand when he has to produce second round
after eating. Am I right? First round produce first round should eat then second run
produce. Second run eat then produce third round. Am I am I right?
Uh now tell me what type of execution are expecting here?
Produce, produce, produce, produce, produce.
No. Consume, consume, consume, consume, consume. No.
What flow you want? Produce. Huh? Consume. Next. Produce.
Consume. Next. Produce. Consume next produce consume. Then tell me while
producing in the middle consume. No produce start end. Consume start end.
This is called synchronization. And this is called alternative.
Understand? Produce and consume. Alternative. Produce and consume alternative. Produce
and consume alternate. So finally tell me what flow of
execution you want. You want sequential and alternative flow of execution.
To achieve sequential flow of execution only synchronized keyword is sufficient.
Okay. Uh but for alternative flow of execution
only synchronized keyword sufficient or not sufficient
not sufficient. We need one more. Tell me in this food serving purpose. Tell me
there is one supervisor will be there here. If this serving people are serving
eagerly before people are eating, he will say hey wait
people are still eating now. Can't you see? He will shout right. He will not allow
him to go. He is telling that wait until people completed eating. Isn't it? Uh I
need this person extra. So to develop this inter thread
communication this thread completed eating then still
if you not serving these people will shout now
right. So that means this thread is waiting till this thread completed. This
thread is waiting till this thread completed. That means what? Alternative execution with the communication.
So this concept is called about inter thread communication. Two threads are communicating. This is thread saying
that serving completed you eat. This thread saying that it completed user.
This concept is called inter thread communication. So to execute threads with the communication only synchroniz
keyword sufficient not sufficient not sufficient we need some extra. What is that extra? Uh tell me after serving I
have this thread trying to serve second attack allow not allow not allow this
this supervisor asking him to what pass how long to pass until this thread
notify this thread will tell okay I am ready to take next round then he has to go and
serve and then coming back wait for the next turn pass then after notifying
again coming back and then going for next round pass. Is it clear guys? Then
tell me to develop inter communication I have to use synchroniz keyword only
synchronized keyword also not sufficient. I need some other what is that? A method for passing.
A method for passing. Now tell me what is this method? I have one method called sleep. I have
another method called join. Uh tell me sleep method is taking the time to
execute. How long this thread will take to eat? How can I set the time? I don't
know. Till it's eating completed I have to wait. So that means this thread is depending on this thread execution or
not then sleep method should use or should not use should not use. The next join method and tell me will join method
will will allow us in the thread one I'm calling consumer join in producer I'm
calling I mean in consumer I'm calling producer join if you call join me on two
threads mutually it become deadlock now
and moreover tell me what join me is doing join method is pass this thread
one as a join to has a chance to execute no Because whenever this thread got
chance to execute produce object is locked when you call join method is that object
unlocked or not unlocked? Not unlocked.
Uh then when it is not unlocked how thread 2 can get a chance to access the object possible or not possible? Not
possible.
So we need one new method. It has to perform two operations. Number one,
pass currently running thread
and unlock the object. So how many operations he has to perform
this new method? Two operations. What the two operation? Number one, pausing
currently running thread. Py currently running thread number two
unlock the object two operation is to do that method is what new method wait. So
what the functionality of weight method weight method is responsible for passing
the currently running thread and unlock the object so that other thread has a
chance to access this object. Okay, thread is passed but object is not
unlocked. Then how another thread can access? Because another thread also executing synchronizer method only.
Okay, everyone understand? Next, what weight method is doing? Wait
me passing the currently running thread how long until other thread is notified.
So that means if other thread is not notified, this thread will be in the waiting state forever.
For example, I told at 9:40, okay? Come back and join after 9:40. Then
I didn't come. Then what happened? I didn't notify you further. You keep on waiting, sending
messages to admin, know me and that, this, this, this, that. Finally, what happened? You face the deadlock
situation.
Uh so tell me after calling wait method we should compulsory call what? Notify.
So tell me notify method will apply on current thread other waiting thread.
Other waiting thread wait method will pass other thread or currently running thread currently running. So wait
working on current object notify working on other thread. So finally how many
things I have to use for a develop inter thread communication business application. To develop this business
application for achieving uh synchronized and alternate flow of execution I need synchronized keyword
and I have to use what method wait and I have to use what notify.
Okay for example there are multiple waiting threads are there. There are many threads are waiting here. I can I
can make multiple threads waiting. Then in that case which method I have to call notify all. Notify all method notify to
all threads. For example there are serving people are there. So many people are there serving. Then this person has
to notify to all threats. Now you started serving. Then all people will
serve. Then who will go first? He cannot. So who are active? He will go
first. You cannot say first come first serve. It will take randomly pick and then execute.
All concept understand? So finally what is the simple diagram? I
have two threads are there. I'm developing this code one more time. Simple diagram. I have two threads TH1
and TH2 threads are there. Both threads are accessing same object.
One thread is accessing this object for modifying. Another thread is accessing this object
for another thread accessing this object for reading.
Then when PH1 thread executing PH2 should not execute. So you should
declare this method as synchronized. When reading other thread should not execute. Declare read method also
synchronized. Now this TH1 will perform modify
operation repeatedly. It should perform second second time modification only after read completed.
Read also executing multiple times. Read method should execute second time only after modifying completed. Then for that
along with the synchronized I have to call what method? Wait. And also what
method I have to call? Wait. So what is the inter thread program template? Inside the method first we should call
weight method. Then I have to write logic. At last I have to call what? Notify. Here also first we have to call
wait method then logic and then what? Notify. Uh try to apply the code now.
Execute this code. Now if you understand the code then I will write the code. Uh first assume th1 got a chance to execute
uh modify method. Then here in the modify method first it obtain what lock.
Okay. Then wait method should execute always if no data available in the
object. No data available. That means I need one boolean variable here for checking the
data available or not. And then another variable for holding the data. So here we have one if condition to verify if
data available then wait else go and execute. First time data available or
not available. Not available. Then wait is not executed. Then go there logic executed. Here I must write equal to
true. Then false replace with what? True. Then next notify. Do you have any
threat to notify? No. Now notify become again in the loop. Now this modify
method second time executed. This is what first time and this is what? Second time. Second time executed. Then in the
second time when we call method what happen? Tell me now condition is true. Now means what? Data
available. If data available what happen? Wake method is called. What weight method is doing? Program
execution is passed. Uh what is the functionality of wake method? Weight method passes the currently running
thread unlock the object. Now then JVM shifting to second thread. Now tell me
here in the weight method also we call inside where condition. What the condition? If data available or data not
available, data not available. If a data not available, wait. But data available,
then skip the weight method. Go to logic executed. Listen carefully. Now here it
will make the data as what? False. Then to replace with what? False. Uh notify
method is called. Now tell me notify is apply. Now notify will notify to this
thread. Get ready to execute. I'm releasing the lock. So this waiting thread got notification. Then it is
trying to execute second time. Second time data available and not available. Not available. Then wait method
executed. Execution is passed. Then JVM shifting to first thread. Already notification come. It is ready to
execute. Then now come out of the weight state. Logic executed. Next item produced. So like this produce weight.
Consume weight. Produce weight. Conju wait.
So everyone got story. Shall I write the code now?
In third thread communication program template is very important. How many classes we have to develop now? Four
classes. This is main thread class to start the both the threads. Object.
Object with how many methods? Two methods. Modify and read. Then thread
one for calling modify method. Thread two for calling read method. Inside modify method and inside read method.
What is the program template? Condition. Wait method call logic. Change the
condition to true notify. Same condition. Wait method. What the
condition? Opposite condition. Then logic following by condition change to
false. And then uh what do you call this is a notify. So this is a fix and code.
Are you ready for writing code? Will you help me? I'm taking class called factory
and I'm defining method called wide produce.
How many items to produce? Int items.
Video consume.
How many items to consume? Given number of items. Inteans
to maintain the items. Here I have private intems.
To know whether items available or not, I'm taking boolean variable items
available. Inside produce method, I should produce items. This dot items equal to
this dot items plus given number of items. See produce and adding more items
only. Now in program you cannot produce in factory it will produce. In the program it will update.
After producing items, I have to change items available equal to true.
Uh items consumed. What logic I should write? This dot items equal to this dot
rate is like a deposit and withdraw method. No, this dot items minus items.
Uh next items available
equal to false. Okay. Now my question you want execute
produce and consume method concurrently. No. So you have to add what here
synchronized also you should add here synchronized. Next I don't want to execute produce
consume continuously. Produce produce produce consume consume consume. I want to produce consume produce consume then
I have to write if condition whether items available or not. If items
available should not produce weight. Wait method passes the thread execution.
So you should handle interrupted exception
is in a difficult then after wait state completed it will
come out and produce the second round of items. After first round items completed
we have to notify to other thread waiting for this object. That's all this is produce method by logic notify. Uh
same consume also. When am I allowed to consume? Only if items not available not
not operator. If not items available then what you do? If items not available
then what you do? Wait without items. How can you eat raby? You
have to wait until the people produce the items. Huh?
Right. And then if items available, happily eat and then notify for the next
round of food to the waiter. That's all factory produce items completed. Now we
need threads. Now class producer
it is a project. Now can I write implements
runnable? run method. Inside run method, what you
want to do? You want to call factory dot produce.
Yes or no? Uh that means what? Producer required one factory object. Factory
factory
constructor this dot factory factory
factory dot produce how many items you want to produce multiple then write for
loop for int i = 1 i less than or equals to 10 i ++
open bracket and close the bracket. Here I have to
write I okay same code I have to repeat in fact
consumer sorry consumer class I have to write first
same code I have to repeat for consumer class consumer
implements runnable factory consumer
Okay. And here factory dot what method I should call consume.
Two threads are ready. Then main thread. What I should write? Factory.
Factory equal to new factory. In this factory I
want to produce. For produce I need one worker. Uh who is the worker? New
thread. This thread should produce item where the produce item available new producer
runnable task by passing factory dot start understand.
Then next another worker for consume new thread of new thread and one worker new
producer and consumer consumer runningable implementation of factory
dot store that's all uh what your expectation of this output produce produce consume produce consume produce
consume hey why output is not coming because I
have not written as plain anywhere here after producing items I One drive one s
double quotes items produced.
Now how many items produce the parameter number right? Next items consumed
items come items control F. Look at there. What is the output
coming? Alternative flow coming now. Produce consume produce consume. Produce consume produce consume.
Clear? So if you want
produce item consume means if you want to execute two threads sequentially and
con uh sequentially and alternatively flow of execution you must use
interthread communication with the synchronized weight and notify. So this is the story about inter thread
communication complete notes with a detailed explanation same program available in the material you have to
practice clear. So we completed synchronization, we
completed deadlock and we completed inter thread communication with this
multi-threading chapter completed on multi-threading we have one
enhancement a small topic okay I will share video can you watch at
night today night on enhancement small topic it is very small topic you watch if you feel not
comfortable I will teach in the regular class I'm okay teaching in the regular class
also okay you want revision also I'll do revision okay first you watch that video night
not now it's the time for enjoy okay close the books and pack up
everything and go for uh lunch after lunch you go for whatever you want
fellow pan don't you listen what I'm saying this a bad mind you never follow
your seniors What I was saying first you watch that video after completing that video still if you have doubt I'll
explain the regular class I'm telling the worst fellow mindless fellow never listen your parents telling never
listen teacher tell
that video also I only taught okay that also only there not new person so first
you check that video uh if you find difficulty there then again I'll explain
the class I am telling. Okay. So with this I'm stopping today's
session. Hope today you enjoyed 4 hours class.
Everyone remember what we learn or forget. So today now after this session don't
read anything just close the notes and take a small nap. go to bed or if you have a good child,
have a good chai and then have a small nap and get up complete lunch. Go
outside, roam on the roads, go to different shopping malls, do what? Uh
window shopping. Uh then come back by 6:00 back to the room and
start doing revision. Watch that video. I'll share now in the Google classroom. Watch that video. learn the topic clear.
So tomorrow we can start new chapter either string handling or
multi-threading that's what you wish sir not multi threading collections string handling or collections whichever
you want me to start I will start tomorrow we will discuss
yeah ask what is your question no need to take permission
So from my side today class done if you have doubts ask me if no doubts we can
leave for the day join tomorrow regular time.
Happy Sunday. Selenium is a testing tool automation
testing tool.
Sumant which why you asking?
Where did you end this many 20
Sumant send me a WhatsApp message.

