ript


Yeah. What we are discussing last class we completed multi- threading right?
Yeah we have one enhancement to discuss in multi- threading but to understand that enhancement you need lambda
expression knowledge. So lambda expression after completing lambda expression we will discuss the topic as
part of the features. Okay here uh now let's start the next chapter
string handling
Okay, we are choosing Java 22 version. So the whatever the changes happened in
string class up to 22 version all changes you can learn. So now new I'm
creating a class test 01
string lit. Now tell me in Java we have different
types of literal. What are the different types of literal we have?
Uh what are the different types of literal we have? We have 10. We have 10 L
10.0F 10 5. Uh, next single quote. And next true.
Okay. True or false? Tell me 10 is what type
in. 10 is a in literal.
Uh next 10 L is long literal.
Uh next uh load literal.
Next double literal.
Next car literal. Uh next
boolean lit. Uh do you have any other literal?
Yes or no? Do you have any other literal? Literal means what? Constant which you can type.
Okay. Constant is nothing but a value that you can type in the source code is called what? Lit. A literal is a
constant that we can type from keyboard.
is a constant value uh that we can type from the key. Uh now
tell me uh here type 10 I can type 10 L I can type 10.1 I can type 10.5 uh 10.5
and next single code a true false also we can type next what else we can type
uh seventh lit we have string lit okay string lit what is a string lit hurry
hurry is a string lit These are what? Sequence of characters.
These are the sequence of characters. These sequence of characters if you type directly har is it a string lit? No. You
have to write inside a double. All these are primitive type lits.
All these are primitive type lits.
All these are primitive type lit. Okay. Uh then string lit is a primitive type
lit or reference type lit. Reference type lit. What are the meaning of reference type?
What is the meaning of reference type? Reference type means is it a just value?
Comma just a values. Uh is it just a value? No, it is an object. It is not
just value. It is an object. And also we have another type literal called
null lit.
Okay. Null literal which is null.
Okay. Which is null? Uh tell me. So here uh let me
seventh null literal eighth. Uh now this is just value.
It is not a object. It is just a value. And next double quotes. It is not just
value. It is an object. It is an object. Uh next we also contain
one more literal called Sun Microsystem didn't say this is a literal but I am
considering it as a literal for better understanding in the next classes. Class lit. Uh here I'm typing a do.class.
class. Okay. A dot class. What is the a class name? Dot class is a extension. So
this a dot class is also an literal. It is also internally an object. Okay. Uh
so now tell me which class object it is an object of string class. It is an
object of class class. Okay. Which string class is available where
java.lang do.tring. Uh where this class is available java.lang.class.
class. So when you when you are talking about values totally how many types of
values we can type? Totally nine types of values we can type. So in these nine
types of values these are just values just values. No memory created. Whenever
I say just values in bracket no memory is not
created. Memory is not created just their values. Okay. uh but whereas whenever I say object object means what
background memory create. So reference type literal uh these are what objects
in bracket object but comes to the object comma memory is allocated.
Uh here for null it is just value memory not allocated.
Okay. Hurry is an object memory allocated of which class java.lang string class. Okay. Object an object
instance of an object comma instance of
uh it is an object comma instance of java.lang dot uh string
class. So this is the first point you need to understand literal. Then now come to the point. What the point we
need to understand? We have already understood other literal. Now we need to understand string lit. So tell me in the
program I am writing main. In the program I am writing
in the program I'm writing system.out.print system.out.print print hurry I have
written directly is it compiled or not compiled not compiled
okay it's not compiled we will get compile error why because it's considered as a variable it is
considered as a variable hurry cannot be resolved to be a variable so if you want to consider a word or sequence of
characters as a string what I should write I should write in double quotes so
what is a string finger. First point, what is a string?
Uh, what is a string? A string is a
a sequence of characters placed in double quotes.
Okay. Then second, what is a string lit? What is a string literal? A string is
nothing but sequence of characters. And then what is a string literal? Same answer. A sequence of characters placed
in double quotes is called string lit. Okay. Uh what is a string lit? A string
lit is an object. Okay. Next, a string lit
is an object which is an instance of java.lang dot
java.lang blank dot string class. Okay. So what is a string lit? A string lit is
a sequence of characters placed in double quotes. It is an object.
It is an object which is an instance of java.cl stringu class. Uh that means
that means when we place
when we place some characters in double quotes.
Okay. Background inside JVM. Uh what happened? One instance is
created from stringo class. One instance is created from string loop class. Okay.
Right. Observe now here here a double quotes are be created. Then tell me first is this double port direct give to
the print l method. No. So what happened background for this double quotes? Uh
background what happened? Object is created. Uh what is the object? Java dot
lang dot string class object. Java.string class object created. Inside
this object what is stored or is store and reference is what template. So now
whenever we have seen double quotes double quotes tell me is it normal value or background it is an object?
Background it is an object. Okay. Can you open Jerox number three material?
Jerox number three material. and search for
string handling chapter and refer notes.
I'll be back in 10 minutes.
Okay. Right. So here what is a string lit? A string lit is a sequence of
characters placed in double ports. Then technically what is it? It is an object which is an instance of java.lang string
class. That means when we place some characters in double ports when you place sum means what? 0 to
0 to n number of characters in double quotes inside JVM. One
instance is created with a string class. Uh instance is created
from string class with the given characters.
Okay. Now I have a question tell me whenever you write double quotes for
hurry inside what happen string object is created if you want to store this string object
with the characters hurry you want to just print it's okay but I want to store
the string object and do some operations for that what I have to do uh for storing
string lit we must Create
string class string class type reference variable.
Now tell me how to write the code. Now string s1 equal to double quotes.
Okay this is just for printing and this is for what storing and then after storing now I'm writing s1 control f1.
And now what is printed? Now tell me class name at the rate hashod data of the object printing data of the object.
Okay. Third point what will be printed?
What is printed when we print
string class object? Uh answer is it's data is printed. Uh
when we print our own class object data is not printed. When we print string class object data is printed. Why? Okay.
Because in string class two string method is overridden. In
string class two string method is overridden to return and print
to return and print string class object. Okay. And now if you remember I'm
writing a class called example. In this class example I have private
intx and I'm defining constructor example
intx. This dox equal to x. Okay. uh now
tell me here I am creating example class object E1 equal to new example by
passing the value 10 or let's say 15 I am taking then when I print E1 what is
printed class name at the rate hash code okay why in string class name at the red
hash code is not printed why example class object class name at the rate hash code printed because in example class
two string method that is not overridden. Now I'm taking another class called sample with the same x. Here I'm
overriding. Here I am overriding two string method. Two string method is not
our class. It is java.lang.object class method. In java.langobject
class we have two string method. I'm overriding and returning the x as the
result. Double quotes x. Can we return x directly? No. Because return type is what? String. I cannot return x. X is a
primitive value in. So how to convert uh primitive value to string? Just concat
with empty string. Double quotes plus x. Then empty string converted x as what?
Value. Uh here what is the expression executed? What is the x value? Suppose I'm passing 15. And then 15 converted to
string. And then uh now both are concatenated. Finally become what? return 15 that 15 is coming here and
printed observe I'm writing same samp same same object with the class
what sample s1 equal to new sample of 15
I'm printing s1 then whenever you print any class object implicitly uh if you
print any class object let me take this as str
when you print any class object Here implicitly print method will call what
method? Two string method. Then here two string method overridden. Yes.
Overridden in string class. Hence what is printed? Data object data is printed.
Object data is printed. Uh next tell me here example object printed. Here also
what happened? Same story. E12 string method is called and tell me E1.2 Two
string method overridden or not overridden? Not overridden
in which class example class and then what is printed? object data class name
and rate hash code uh here then executed from
executed from which class object class and then what happened class name at the
rate hash code
is print Okay. Uh, next tell me here also what happened? E1 sorry S1 dot2
string. Uh, now tell me first searching in which class? Sample class. Then in
sample class is it overridden? Yes, overridden in sample class.
Uh, if it is overridden in sample class, what is printed? Object data 15 is print.
Object data hurry is print. Okay. So this is the knowledge you must have
about two string method. And now finally tell me what is a string lit? A string
what is a string? A sequence of characters placed in double quote is called what? Is called string. Okay. Uh
then next what is string lit? A a string literal is a or you can say a sequence
of characters a sequence of characters placed in double quotes is called string or string
lit. Both are same. Okay. Uh what is a string lit? It is an object technically it is
an object which is an instance of java.lang string class. It means when we place zero to a number of characters in
W code inside JVM one instance is created from string class with the given
data from which class string class which string class java.lang lang string
class. Okay. Uh for storing string lit we must create string class type
reference and a variable in the program. In the program
for storing string liter we must create string class type reference variable. How? Uh tell me now string s1 equal to
double quotes. Sorry
double quotes. Uh now this is the programming part. And
what is printed when we print uh string class object? What do you write here? System dot out dot print ln of what do
you write? S1. If you print S1, what is outly printed? It's a data. Why data?
because two string method is over.
Uh now finally all the people got clarity on string lit. What is string lit? Next. Now I'm going to write next
test 02 string object.
Now tell me how many ways we can create string object.
How many ways we can create string object? Tell me any class object I can create in how many ways? Only one way by
using new keyword. But we can create string object in two ways. In two ways.
What the two ways? Number one, by using string lit. By using string lit double
quotes double quotes. Okay. Number two, by using
new keyword and by using new keyword and constructor
call. By using new keyword and constructor call
new string double quotes
here also I'm writing. Okay. Uh now tell me is there any difference between in
these two approach? Okay. Fifth question. What are the differences between when two approaches are there?
Definitely some differences will be there. Now what are the differences between between string? Okay. Between um
about two approaches. And now there are two differences. Two
approaches. Two differences. Number one.
Huh? Number one. What is that?
Number of objects creation. Number of objects creation. Number two,
string pool. Okay. Number of objects creation string
pooling. Huh. Now tell me what the meaning of number of objects creation.
In literal approach only
one string object is created.
Okay. In a literal approach only one string object is created.
In new keyword approach
two objects are created. Okay, very very important. Enter it for
sure. In new keyword approach, how many objects created? Two objects. Let us try to see now string. S1 equal to double
quotes. Sorry. Until here how many double quotes are
there? One. One double quote is one object. Okay. Now this is one object.
Now string s2 equal to new string of
double quotes. Sorry I have written what happened? Tell me here
uh how two objects. Can you please show your talent and tell me yes here two objects are there? How two
objects? Let me take here not hurry. I'm taking here narate. Now here two objects created. How two objects?
Sorry, double quotes is a one string. Now,
double quotes narid is one string. Then you are passing that one string as
argument to constructor. Constructor before what is there? New keyword is
always creates.
New keyword is always creates one object. Uh so tell me how many objects are available here? Two objects. uh
explain the memory diagram. S1 variable is created equal to string object with the
characters what hurry reference is tent tent stored in S1
point. Next S2 S2 variable is created equal to
uh double quotes. This is one object. Uh now tell me nar it one object is created
with reference 2020. Now the new keyword is another object another new object is
created with reference word 3030. Now tell me what is this constructor?
Constructor is executed by passing current object reference and argument.
So what is the current object 30? What is the argument object 20? Tell me what
is the job of constructor? Constructor job is initialize the argument object or
current object with a argument. So inside constructor we have a logic
copying copying argument object characters
into current object. So what the logic available? Copying current object
characters into sorry argument object characters into current object. That
means can I say this constructor is a normal constructor? Copy constructor. It
is a copy constructor. Remember a copy constructor. Copy constructor takes same class object and copy its data into
current object. That is called copy constructor. If it is storing this string object reference directly inside
the string object, we call it as copy constructor. No, we call it as a initializer. So if you if the
constructor has a logic take the current class object as a argument and copy the
data from current object into argument object then we call that constructor as what copy constructor. So if somebody
asked tell me the predefined class example for a copy constructor can I say string class constructor is a copy
constructor right then tell me what happened now this nar characters are
copy into here tell me 2020 copied nar characters copied characters are copied
and now what is written to s2 variable to store new keyword reference what the new keyword reference 30 is stored and
pointing to it is it clear everyone Uh now tell me SQ
variable pointing to this object. So totally to your program how many objects are under your control? Two objects.
What is the 10 10 object and 30 30 object are in our control. So finally tell me whenever you see double quotes
immediately your mind should say is it a normal value like a 10? Is it a normal value like a 10 or is it
an object? Object means separate circle you have to create with the characters. When you see new keyword and literal how
many objects you have to count there two objects enter will ask a question in the written test exam identify how many
objects count how many objects are created in the below code you should able to tell double code is one object
new keyword and double code is second object okay two objects are there let me ask another question here I'm creating
string s2 equal to double quotes sorry I repeated again uh here any new object
created Here any new object created? Answer is zero.
New object is not created. Why? Why new object is not created? Already
created now. So that is that object. This is this object. You use new keyword not used.
Then that means you are repeating. Now if you use new then new object you are
asking. But are you asking new or directly? Direct. Directly means what is this? Repeating. So you are repeating
double quotes are here again. The new object created or not created. Not create. Prove it. How can you prove?
System dot out dot print len of print len of uh s1 double equal to s3. What is
the output? Prove. Because s1 reference s3 reference will be same. Why? Because
here another new object created or not created the previous object reference only copied here will get output true
by error.
Okay. So what you got now? output true why true output you are getting because here both references are same okay now
I'm asking next question string s4 equal to new string of double quotes nit and
tell me how many objects created here
two objects created come on think two objects created or not
created not created one object created Which object? Double quotes nit and new
keyword. New keyword. One object created. Why? Because double quotes nit
already created. Now just now I proved that whenever the literally is repeated,
new object is not created. Okay. Literally is repeated. New object
is not created. Previous object only will be used. Uh when a new keyword is
repeated, then new object is created. Okay. Let me prove this point. System.out. Out print ln yes 2 double
equal to yes s4 tell me how many objects create here we will get true or false
false both are different objects true and false and now explain the memory
diagram completely here first what happened yes s1 variable memory created
okay let me take it here
uh s1 variable created. Then what happened? String object is created with
reference 10. Inside what is there? Three characters. Then ton store
pointing to it. Then s2 variable is created equal to
again double quotes you created. I'm writing this s_ub_2. This is s_sub_2.
This is s3. This is s3. Uh now S2 variable is created. S2 variable
assigned with new literal same lit same literal here new object created a
previous object reference is written previous object reference is written t and stored and pointing to the same
object then because s_sub_1 s2 references are same pointing to same object you will
get output true I have a question s1 s2 equal to true because object is same
reference is same content is same huh because of content is same because
reference is same double equal to operator will work on reference not on
data. Okay. Uh fine then next what about these two these three lines? Let us
analyze uh S4 variable is S3 variable is created equal to first what object is
created literal object 2020 nar it
uh equal to what happened? Another string object is created with reference 30 30. What happened here? Data is
copied into this string object. Uh now what is the data available? Nar ID
reference is what? 30 uh pointing to okay. Next S4 variable is created equal
to uh new keyword creates another new string object. Is this double quotes nit
another object created or not created? Not created. 40 40 what happened in this
double quotes nit the old object 2020 is substituted and from that old object
only data is copied inside this object what is that uh nar it we got are people
following what the data we got here 40 pointing to
clear so this is the memory diagram s3 and s4 are pointing to same object no
but s3 s4 Both are copying the data from same object. Copy from same object but
holding what? Different reference object. Uh now my question is
reusing one literal object. Reusing the same literal object every
time. Reusing the same literal object every time when
it is repeated. This concept is called string pooling. What we call string
pooling? What is a string pooling? String pooling is a concept in which
already created object already created literal objects will be reused. When we
repeat the same lit again and again only one object is created and every time the
already created first object reference will be repeated. This concept is called what? String pooling. Now my question
how JVM knows that already first object is created. JVM looking for previous
lines is the object already created. You can see by using your eyes you can see in the previous line uh hurry created
nit created you can see but JVM has eyes to see previous lines. No. Then what JBM
will do? Whenever you create literal object, whenever you create literal object, the literal objects are created
in special memory. Nothing but collection. Nothing but collection. You
remember last class we have understood inside JVM for storing the thread of demon threads one group non-demon
threads as another group. We have one collection object. Huh that collection object is called demon threads
collection non demon threads collection like that inside JVM we have inside JVM
inside heap area we have a separate memory area is available not memory
sorry a collection object is available this collection object is named as what string constant pulled area what do we
call a string constant pulled area all string lit whenever JVM come across the
string literal Immediately this object is created inside a string constant pool
area. Okay. Then when second time lit is repeated it is going JVM checking in the
string constant pool area is H already available. If already available return the existing reference. If already not
available it creates the object in the pool returns the reference to our program. Okay. Now finally try to
answer. First step JVM come here. S1 equal to S1 variable created where in a
Java stack area in a Java stack area in a main thread in a main method stack
frame in a main method stack frame in Java stack area in main thread in main method stack frame S1 variable is
created now hurry is a new keyword object or lit object lit object then it is going on checking in the string
constant pool area first time is a string object with the data hurry is available there no then it create string
object with the data hurry and return the reference and store it inside S1. Then we control go to next line. Then S2
variable created in Java ST area in main thread in the main method stack frame and search for what uh string object
with the data hurry. String object with the data hurry available or not available? Available. Then return its
reference and store it in our variable. Next line we are comparing S1 with S2. S1 reference S2 reference return. Then
returns what? True. Then third, fourth line string is equal to new string of first always argument is executed. Then
new keyword is executed. Now argument double quotes nit double quotes nit. Now
it is it is a literal object in the string constant pool area. Is the lit object available? No. Then new object is
created with reference 2020 and substituted that reference here and then new keyword creates the object. Tell me
where is a new keyword creates object in the string constant pool area or in the heap area? Heap area because it is not a
string lit in the constant pool. In the pool in the string constant pool in the string pool what is created? Only lit is
literal object is created. Is this literal object? No, it is a new keyword object is a expression object. An
expression object is a not a constant. The name itself telling only constants are allowed here. And then now what
happened? The reference the swing object is created in the heap area with the reference 3030. Then the
data is copied from pool to new heap object and store the data here. When you go to the next line new keyword okay
double quotes nit it is a literal object. First creating a checking checking checking in the heap area is
there any string object with nit? Yes. Then it reads the characters and copy into new keyword created object and
return the reference. Everyone understand what is the string constant pool? Finally try to answer what are the
differences in creating string object by using string lit new keyword in a string
lit approach.
In a string lit approach number of objects created only one and pooling is
applied means when you repeat the same object new object is not created. Second, in a new keyword approach, every
time new object is created, uh pooling is not applied. If you create
new keyword wise object, two objects are created. One is literal, another is new keyword. Tell me, I'm writing one
statement here. String S5 equal to new string of double quotes Hyderabad.
Again, I'm repeated. string S6 equal to new string of either uh
okay new string of either how many objects created here two here one now string yes six equal to
double quotes state now ts are tier
olden days now t after 5 years maybe it come back to the ts
understand next five years if KCR again come back to the power again he may
change from TG to TS we'll see uh now string
S7 equal to uh I am writing this is S7
S8 equal to
S8 equal to new string of double quotes TG New string of double quotes.
How many objects created here? One here
two. Why
the literal object is already created? So only new keyword object only new
keyword object. Understood? Yes. Uh now tell me what is the memory diagram here? Tell me. S7 created. This
is our heap area. In heap area we have what? String constant pulled area. And
then now in Java stack area S7 variable created equal to double quotes TG lit in
SCP TG not available created with reference 10 stored in S7 point.
Next new string of S8 created. New string of TG. TG already available in
heap area only new string object is created with reference 2020. Characters
are copied from pool to here. PG 2020 stored point. Next S9. Uh then
another string object is created. Data is copied from pool to here and
reference is sorry TG reference is 30 30
stored point everyone understand
now next point here I'm writing SS7 equal to null
okay and I call systemg collection completed
and tell me is S7 pointing object eligible for garbage collection.
This reference is gone. 10 replace with null. Reference is gone. Sorry, this is pointing to whom?
Tell me now. Now reference is gone. Is the TG object eligible for garbage collection or
no? No. Why?
It is holding by SCPA. Prove that it is not eligible for garbage collection. Okay. What do you write again? Write
string S10 equal to double quotes TG. If it is a garbage collector destroyed,
another new string object should create now. System.out print. Yes. 7 double
equal to S10 should get what? False. Oh my god.
S7 we cannot write because it's already null
sorry we'll do one we cannot test it only concept and
I cannot prove it okay yeah I can prove it
no I cannot prove it I'm thinking Any other way to
no? Okay. I cannot prove it but you have to
have common sense. What are the common sense? Literal object is not eligible for garbage
collection because literal object is holding by SCPA. Okay.
Next. Now I'm writing string S9
S10 uh sorry S S8 equal to S8 equal to
null. Uh now tell me if I write S8 equal to null and call garbage collection. Is this object eligible for garbage
collection? Reference is gone. This object is referencing by any pool here.
No this is copy. This is not arrow mark is not meant for referencing. That's why
return dotted line. This is what copy data copied. Data copied. Now is this
object holding by pool? No. Now this object is eligible for garbage collection. So tell me now string
pooling is a good concept. Not that much good concept.
String pooling is giving benefit more benefits background problems also there.
Actually string pooling has a one advantage. What the advantage? Number of objects creation is decreased.
But once the object is pulled is it uh eligible for garbage collection or not
eligible? Not eligible. So tell me what is the disadvantage of this string pooling? Object is never eligible for
garbage collection. Once you add the object to the SCP that object is never eligible for garbage collection. Uh if
string pooling is really giving the benefit, if string pooling is really giving the benefit, why new keyword wise
object is not pooling? Are you following my point? So new
keyword wise object is not pulled only literal object wise pooling. Only reason is uh new string constant poolled area
is never eligible for garbage collection. Objects stored is never eligible for garbage collection. In my
project if I create thousands of object thousands of string objects finally all are will go inside pool and heap area
field and we don't have chance for creating new objects we will get out of memory error. So pooling is giving
advantage. For example, you have sweets. Sweets are very sweet, you can eat. But
how one k of sweet one day if you eat then you will be in a hospital.
Okay. Now so advantage is there. But what you should use like a medicine. Okay. Uh now slowly we have to eat daily
once we eat no problem. Body can control your sugar levels. So if you eat complete 1 kg of sugar one day then
okay so finally what is the point cooling is having advantage that it can
it can allow us to reuse the objects by creating only one time disadvantage is it is not eligible for garbage
collection is it clear everyone so finally what points we covered how
many how many ways different ways we can what are the different ways we can create
string object Different ways to create string object. Uh now how many ways we
can create string object? Two ways. Literal approach and new keyword and constructor call. In a literal approach,
how many objects created? One object. In a new keyword object, two objects. Uh
next, always two objects are always two objects. No. In bracket one
object, I can say zero. Sorry, one or two objects. One compulsory. Here always
one object or no zero or one object.
Uh now tell me what is the pooling? The literal object
comes under pulling means
new object is not created if the same literal is
repeated with same case. Java is case sensitive right? If at least one character case changed also new object
is created here objects are
being reused and next the new keyword object
doesn't come under pulling
Always new object is created
even though the data is same.
Is it clear guys? So there's a story. Please refer material.
Are these points there? They are not there.
Must be there.
Did you find the page number? Okay. Same explanation with the diagrams
must be there.
U huh I know it's there because it's it's written by me one look at it to go
into room you read I'm taking string s1 equal to
double quotes hk Okay.
Now I am trying to write S1 dot there is a predefined method
called concat s1.t concat of double ports comma nid I have written
then I'm printing system.out ordered for yes 1 second sir
which approach is best
for creating string object and tell me literal approach is better
or new keyword uh new keyword is best. I have two approaches. What are the two
approaches? Literal approach and new keyword approach. Which approach is best? Literal approach wise only one
object is created. String approach wise more than one object is created.
Literal approach wise only one object created. Right?
How many objects created? One new keyword wise
two and string pooling applied. Yes. String
pooling not applied. No. Uh now tell me which approach is best. Literal new
keyword. Literal approach wise is best because
it comes under and only one object is created. number of objects decrease.
When number of objects are decreased, we will have advantage. Now uh now tell me
when literal approach is best why new keyword approach is there? Okay. Which
approach is best for creating string object? Answer is depends
on depends on the purpose. Okay. Depends on the purpose. Uh tell me
we want to create very first new object.
Which approach I have to use? Can I use new keyword approach? I want to create very first object
string object. Can I create new keyword approach? No. Okay. We can use only literal approach. We must use literal
approach. Why new keyword approach? We cannot use for the new keyword approach also. I should write double quotes. Huh?
Directly I cannot write characters double quotes. When I write double quotes, obviously it is what? New object. Next, when to use new keyword
approach, we must use new keyword approach.
Now what? Already know what constructor is doing. Creating a copyinger
only for creating new string object for by
copying
means for creating
uh what new string object by copying content
from other existing string object. Okay. For copy
operation only use a new keyword approach. If you want to create a very first new object always use literal
approach. Okay, that's it. So when to use literal approach and new keyword
approach? Literal approach uh purpose new object
and this is copy object.
Right? And now let us try to understand next point. String immutable. Now look
at here. I created one string object. I'm calling concat. Concat method is
used for joining both the strings as one string. Okay. Then what is the output
you are expecting here? Output HK or output HK comma NIT. Which
one? Which one is right answer? HK or HK comma NI?
HK comma NIT. It is a it is a wrong answer. HK is the right answer.
No. But it is immutable. Tell me your brain is mutable or immutable.
Your brain is immutable. Every day you should concat the previous
content to the next content. Next content to previous content you concat and you have to tell the next class.
What are you doing? Every day you are coming with what? Fresh brain. Right? First day brain. Di
you are coming into the class with only first day brain. never your concatenate because your brain is a immutable very
very danger brain immutable. Okay. Uh so finally string is also
immutable means we cannot modify the object content in the same object. Then
what is happening? Whenever we call whenever we call
concat method always it returns the result as a new object. It returns the
result as a new object. String S_sub_2 equal to then you write S_sub_2 S1 is
what? HK. S2 is what? HK, NI control F.
Look at that hk HK n. So finally what is the point? String is immutable means you
cannot modify string data in the current object. What the current object double quotes HK current object. Uh tell me if
you call student object by calling S1 dot um uh S1 student object dot uh set
course of new course then new course is stored in the new string object I mean new student object same existing student
object existing student object then student employee bank account objects allowing to modify the fields data in
the same object memory or not. Yes but come to the string it will not allows us to modify in the same string object. It
returns new string object to our program. So remember string is immutable. String is immutable means
string object is immutable. Some students are having wonderful confusion.
Uh string s3 equal to double quotes. I have written here hyderabad.
Okay. Hyderabad. Uh now tell me system dot outp
here s3. What are the three coming? Hyderabad. But I'm writing S3 equal to double quotes.
Uh what you'll get here? Hyderabad.
Come on. Hyderabad. Second. Okay. This is
string is immutable. Now string object is immutable. Not string
variable. Many times I told you S3 is not a object. S3 is a
variable in the object. Double quotes Hyderabad is object. S3 is not object.
S3 is a variable. Uh then to the variable another new object reference I
can assign or not. Yes. Is this Sandra going on storing in this object? No, it
is another new object. This new object reference is stored in
S3 variable pointing to this new object. The old object is unreference and S3 is pointing to the new object. Understand?
Don't confuse by object and by variable. It is a variable. It is object. And no
sir, I want to make my string variable also immutable. Then declare variable as
final. S4 equal to double quotes
NI. Now S4 equal to double quotes. I'm writing all small NIT. Allowed or not
allowed? Not allowed. compiler will throw error. Now string object and also
string available both are what? Both are what? Imotable. So string
object is immutable. Meaning once you create a string object with content
inside the same circle inside the same current object you cannot store new
data. If you try to store new data data is not replaced. old data object
available another new object is created with the result and that new object is returned to our program if you don't
store that new object data is lost if you want to hold that object you have to
assign to a local variable with original variable we will get hk with a new
variable we will get what modified data uh string object is immutable what about
string variable string variable is not immutable it is immutable we can assign
new object if you want to make string variable is also immutable we should declare it as fine. Okay. So this point
with a clear memory diagram available in the material refer it. So totally how many points completed? Three points.
Number one sorry four points. What is string lit? Next when we print string
object what is printed? Two string method in the string class. The next string object and then string immutable.
So you have to refer these three points. These are the very basic standard points of the string handling entire chapter.
Tomorrow we will try to understand some more important points on string chapter. Okay. Don't miss tomorrow class. Thank
you. That's all for today class.

